ected house; next,
    this is a respected fellow; and his mistress is a respected
    woman.
  POMPEY. By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respected person than
    any of us all.
  ELBOW. Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicket varlet; the time is
    yet to come that she was ever respected with man, woman, or
    child.
  POMPEY. Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.
  ESCALUS. Which is the wiser here, Justice or Iniquity? Is this
    true?
  ELBOW. O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wicked Hannibal! I
    respected with her before I was married to her! If ever I was
    respected with her, or she with me, let not your worship think me
    the poor Duke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or
    I'll have mine action of batt'ry on thee.
  ESCALUS. If he took you a box o' th' ear, you might have your
    action of slander too.
  ELBOW. Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't your
    worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?
  ESCALUS. Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him that
    thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him continue in his
    courses till thou know'st what they are.
  ELBOW. Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou wicked
    varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art to continue now,
    thou varlet; thou art to continue.
  ESCALUS. Where were you born, friend?
  FROTH. Here in Vienna, sir.
  ESCALUS. Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
  FROTH. Yes, an't please you, sir.
  ESCALUS. So. What trade are you of, sir?
  POMPEY. A tapster, a poor widow's tapster.
  ESCALUS. Your mistress' name?
  POMPEY. Mistress Overdone.
  ESCALUS. Hath she had any more than one husband?
  POMPEY. Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.
  ESCALUS. Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master Froth, I
    would not have you acquainted with tapsters: they will draw you,
    Master Froth, and you will hang them. Get you gone, and let me
    hear n