STHUMUS. Being so far provok'd as I was in France, I would abate
    her nothing, though I profess myself her adorer, not her friend.
  IACHIMO. As fair and as good- a kind of hand-in-hand comparison-
    had been something too fair and too good for any lady in Britain.
    If she went before others I have seen as that diamond of yours
    outlustres many I have beheld, I could not but believe she
    excelled many; but I have not seen the most precious diamond that
    is, nor you the lady.
  POSTHUMUS. I prais'd her as I rated her. So do I my stone.
  IACHIMO. What do you esteem it at?
  POSTHUMUS. More than the world enjoys.
  IACHIMO. Either your unparagon'd mistress is dead, or she's
    outpriz'd by a trifle.
  POSTHUMUS. You are mistaken: the one may be sold or given, if there
    were wealth enough for the purchase or merit for the gift; the
    other is not a thing for sale, and only the gift of the gods.
  IACHIMO. Which the gods have given you?
  POSTHUMUS. Which by their graces I will keep.
  IACHIMO. You may wear her in title yours; but you know strange fowl
    light upon neighbouring ponds. Your ring may be stol'n too. So
    your brace of unprizable estimations, the one is but frail and
    the other casual; a cunning thief, or a that-way-accomplish'd
    courtier, would hazard the winning both of first and last.
  POSTHUMUS. Your Italy contains none so accomplish'd a courtier to
    convince the honour of my mistress, if in the holding or loss of
    that you term her frail. I do nothing doubt you have store of
    thieves; notwithstanding, I fear not my ring.
  PHILARIO. Let us leave here, gentlemen.
  POSTHUMUS. Sir, with all my heart. This worthy signior, I thank
    him, makes no stranger of me; we are familiar at first.
  IACHIMO. With five times so much conversation I should get ground
    of your fair mistress; make her go back even to the yielding, had
    I admittance and opportunity to friend.
  POSTHUMUS. No, no.
  I