e me the Count's youth to fight with him; hurt
    him in eleven places. My niece shall take note of it; and assure
    thyself there is no love-broker in the world can more prevail in
    man's commendation with woman than report of valour.
  FABIAN. There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.
  AGUECHEEK. Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?
  SIR TOBY. Go, write it in a martial hand; be curst and brief; it is
    no matter how witty, so it be eloquent and full of invention.
    Taunt him with the license of ink; if thou thou'st him some
    thrice, it shall not be amiss; and as many lies as will lie in
    thy sheet of paper, although the sheet were big enough for the
    bed of Ware in England, set 'em down; go about it. Let there be
    gall enough in thy ink, though thou write with a goose-pen, no
    matter. About it.
  AGUECHEEK. Where shall I find you?
  SIR TOBY. We'll call thee at the cubiculo. Go.
                                                 Exit SIR ANDREW
  FABIAN. This is a dear manakin to you, Sir Toby.
  SIR TOBY. I have been dear to him, lad- some two thousand strong,
    or so.
  FABIAN. We shall have a rare letter from him; but you'll not
    deliver't?
  SIR TOBY. Never trust me then; and by all means stir on the youth
    to an answer. I think oxen and wainropes cannot hale them
    together. For Andrew, if he were open'd and you find so much
    blood in his liver as will clog the foot of a flea, I'll eat the
    rest of th' anatomy.
  FABIAN. And his opposite, the youth, bears in his visage no great
    presage of cruelty.

                         Enter MARIA

  SIR TOBY. Look where the youngest wren of nine comes.
  MARIA. If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourselves into
    stitches, follow me. Yond gull Malvolio is turned heathen, a very
    renegado; for there is no Christian that means to be saved by
    believing rightly can ever believe such impossible passages of
    grossness. He's in yellow stockings.
  SIR TOBY. And cr