can tell how to make it.
  SERVANT. You mistake me, sir.
  FALSTAFF. Why, sir, did I say you were an honest man? Setting my
    knighthood and my soldiership aside, I had lied in my throat if I
    had said so.
  SERVANT. I pray you, sir, then set your knighthood and your
    soldiership aside; and give me leave to tell you you in your
    throat, if you say I am any other than an honest man.
  FALSTAFF. I give thee leave to tell me so! I lay aside that which
    grows to me! If thou get'st any leave of me, hang me; if thou
    tak'st leave, thou wert better be hang'd. You hunt counter.
    Hence! Avaunt!
  SERVANT. Sir, my lord would speak with you.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Sir John Falstaff, a word with you.
  FALSTAFF. My good lord! God give your lordship good time of day. I
    am glad to see your lordship abroad. I heard say your lordship
    was sick; I hope your lordship goes abroad by advice. Your
    lordship, though not clean past your youth, hath yet some smack
    of age in you, some relish of the saltness of time; and I most
    humbly beseech your lordship to have a reverend care of your
    health.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Sir John, I sent for you before your expedition to
    Shrewsbury.
  FALSTAFF. An't please your lordship, I hear his Majesty is return'd
    with some discomfort from Wales.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I talk not of his Majesty. You would not come when I
    sent for you.
  FALSTAFF. And I hear, moreover, his Highness is fall'n into this
    same whoreson apoplexy.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well God mend him! I pray you let me speak with you.
  FALSTAFF. This apoplexy, as I take it, is a kind of lethargy, an't
    please your lordship, a kind of sleeping in the blood, a whoreson
    tingling.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. What tell you me of it? Be it as it is.
  FALSTAFF. It hath it original from much grief, from study, and
    perturbation of the brain. I have read the cause of his effects
    in Galen; it is a kind of deafness.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I think you are fall'n into the disease, for you
    hear not what I say to you.
  FALSTAFF. Very well, my lord, very well. Rather an't please you, it
    is the disease of not listening, the malady of not marking, that
    I am troubled withal.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. To punish you by t