would grow into extremes.             Exeunt

SC_2
                            SCENE II.
               A bedchamber in the LORD'S house

    Enter aloft SLY, with ATTENDANTS; some with apparel, basin
             and ewer, and other appurtenances; and LORD

  SLY. For God's sake, a pot of small ale.
  FIRST SERVANT. Will't please your lordship drink a cup of sack?
  SECOND SERVANT. Will't please your honour taste of these conserves?
  THIRD SERVANT. What raiment will your honour wear to-day?
  SLY. I am Christophero Sly; call not me 'honour' nor 'lordship.' I
    ne'er drank sack in my life; and if you give me any conserves,
    give me conserves of beef. Ne'er ask me what raiment I'll wear,
    for I have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings than
    legs, nor no more shoes than feet- nay, sometime more feet than
    shoes, or such shoes as my toes look through the overleather.
  LORD. Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
    O, that a mighty man of such descent,
    Of such possessions, and so high esteem,
    Should be infused with so foul a spirit!
  SLY. What, would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher Sly, old
    Sly's son of Burton Heath; by birth a pedlar, by education a
    cardmaker, by transmutation a bear-herd, and now by present
    profession a tinker? Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of
    Wincot, if she know me not; if she say I am not fourteen pence on
    the score for sheer ale, score me up for the lying'st knave in
    Christendom. What! I am not bestraught.  [Taking a pot of ale]
    Here's-
  THIRD SERVANT. O, this it is that makes your lady mourn!
  SECOND SERVANT. O, this is it that makes your servants droop!
  LORD. Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house,
    As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
    O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth!
    Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment,
    And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
    Look how thy servants do attend on thee,
    Each in his office ready at thy beck.
    Wilt thou have music? Hark! Apollo plays,            [Music]
    And twenty caged nightingales do sing.
    Or wilt thou sleep? We'll have thee to a couch
    Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed
    On purpose trimm'd up for Semiramis.
    Say thou wilt walk: we will bestrew the ground.
    Or wilt thou ride? Thy horses shall