LVOLIO. I say this house is as dark as ignorance, though
    ignorance were as dark as hell; and I say there was never man
    thus abus'd. I am no more mad than you are; make the trial of it
    in any constant question.
  CLOWN. What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wild fowl?
  MALVOLIO. That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.
  CLOWN. What think'st thou of his opinion?
  MALVOLIO. I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his
    opinion.
  CLOWN. Fare thee well. Remain thou still in darkness: thou shalt
   hold th' opinion of Pythagoras ere I will allow of thy wits; and
    fear to kill a woodcock, lest thou dispossess the soul of thy
    grandam. Fare thee well.
  MALVOLIO. Sir Topas, Sir Topas!
  SIR TOBY. My most exquisite Sir Topas!
  CLOWN. Nay, I am for all waters.
  MARIA. Thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown: he
    sees thee not.
  SIR TOBY. To him in thine own voice, and bring me word how thou
    find'st him. I would we were well rid of this knavery. If he may
    be conveniently deliver'd, I would he were; for I am now so far
    in offence with my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety
    this sport to the upshot. Come by and by to my chamber.
                                                 Exit with MARIA
  CLOWN. [Sings] Hey, Robin, jolly Robin,
    Tell me how thy lady does.
  MALVOLIO. Fool!
  CLOWN. [Sings] My lady is unkind, perdy.
  MALVOLIO. Fool!
  CLOWN. [Sings] Alas, why is she so?
  MALVOLIO. Fool I say!
  CLOWN. [Sings] She loves another- Who calls, ha?
  MALVOLIO. Good fool, as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand,
    help me to a candle, and pen, ink, and paper; as I am a
    gentleman, I will live to be thankful to thee for't.
  CLOWN. Master Malvolio?
  MALVOLIO. Ay, good fool.
  CLOWN. Alas, sir, how fell you besides your five wits?
  MALVOLIO. Fool, there was never man so notoriously abus'd;
    I am as well in my wits, fool, as thou art.
  CLOWN. But as well? Then you are mad indeed, if you be no better in
    your wits than a fool.
  MALVOLIO. They have here propertied me; keep me in darkness, send
    ministers to me, asses, and do all they can to face me out of my
    wits.
  CLOWN. Advise you what. you say: the minister is here.
    [Speaking as SIR TOPAS] Malvolio, thy wits the heavens restore!
    Endeavour thyself to sleep, and leave thy vain