is avouches the shepherd's son, who
    has not only his innocence, which seems much, to justify him, but
    a handkerchief and rings of his that Paulina knows.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. What became of his bark and his followers?
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Wreck'd the same instant of their master's death,
    and in the view of the shepherd; so that all the instruments
    which aided to expose the child were even then lost when it was
    found. But, O, the noble combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was
    fought in Paulina! She had one eye declin'd for the loss of her
    husband, another elevated that the oracle was fulfill'd. She
    lifted the Princess from the earth, and so locks her in embracing
    as if she would pin her to her heart, that she might no more be
    in danger of losing.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. The dignity of this act was worth the audience of
    kings and princes; for by such was it acted.
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. One of the prettiest touches of all, and that
    which angl'd for mine eyes- caught the water, though not the
    fish- was, when at the relation of the Queen's death, with the
    manner how she came to't bravely confess'd and lamented by the
    King, how attentivenes wounded his daughter; till, from one sign
    of dolour to another, she did with an 'Alas!'- I would fain say-
    bleed tears; for I am sure my heart wept blood. Who was most
    marble there changed colour; some swooned, all sorrowed. If all
    the world could have seen't, the woe had been universal.
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Are they returned to the court?
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. No. The Princess hearing of her mother's statue,
    which is in the keeping of Paulina- a piece many years in doing
    and now newly perform'd by that rare Italian master, Julio
    Romano, who, had he himself eternity and could put breath into
    his work, would beguile nature of her custom, so perfectly he is
    her ape. He so near to Hermione hath done Hermione that they say
    one would speak to her and stand in hope of answer- thither with
    all greediness of affection are they gone, and there they intend
    to sup.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. I thought she had some great matter there in
    hand; for she hath privately twice or thrice a day, ever since
    the death of Hermione, visited that removed house. Shall we
    thither, and with our company piece the rejoicing?
  FIRST GENTLEMAN. Who would be thence that has the benefit of
 