 bills be not stol'n. Well, you are to call at all the alehouses
    and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
  2. Watch. How if they will not?
  Dog. Why then, let them alone till they are sober. If they make you
    not then the better answer, You may say they are not the men you
    took them for.
  2. Watch. Well, sir.
  Dog. If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue of your
    office, to be no true man; and for such kind of men, the less you
    meddle or make with them, why, the more your honesty.
  2. Watch. If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay hands on
    him?
  Dog. Truly, by your office you may; but I think they that touch
    pitch will be defil'd. The most peaceable way for you, if you do
    take a thief, is to let him show himself what he is, and steal
    out of your company.
  Verg. You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
  Dog. Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who
    hath any honesty in him.
  Verg. If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call to the
    nurse and bid her still it.
  2. Watch. How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?
  Dog. Why then, depart in peace and let the child wake her with
    crying; for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baes will
    never answer a calf when he bleats.
  Verg. 'Tis very true.
  Dog. This is the end of the charge: you, constable, are to present
    the Prince's own person. If you meet the Prince in the night,
    you may stay him.
  Verg. Nay, by'r lady, that I think 'a cannot.
  Dog. Five shillings to one on't with any man that knows the
    statutes, he may stay him! Marry, not without the Prince be
    willing; for indeed the watch ought to offend no man, and it is
    an offence to stay a man against his will.
  Verg. By'r lady, I think it be so.
  Dog. Ha, ah, ha! Well, masters, good night. An there be any matter
    of weight chances, call up me. Keep your fellows' counsels and
    your own, and good night. Come, neighbour.
  2. Watch. Well, masters, we hear our charge. Let us go sit here
    upon the church bench till two, and then all to bed.
  Dog. One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch about
    Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being there tomorrow,
    there is a great coil to-night. Adieu. Be vigitant, I beseech
    you.                           Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].

                     Enter Borachio and Conrade.

  Bora. What, Conrade!
  2. Watch. [aside] Peace! stir not!
  Bora. Conrade, I say!
  Con. Here, man. I am at thy elbow.
  Bora. Mass, and my elbow itch'd! I thought there would a scab
 