he gentleman should be her sister;
    If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antic,
    Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed;
    If low, an agate very vilely cut;
    If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds;
    If silent, why, a block moved with none.
    So turns she every man the wrong side out
    And never gives to truth and virtue that
    Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
  Urs. Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
  Hero. No, not to be so odd, and from all fashions,
    As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable.
    But who dare tell her so? If I should speak,
    She would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me
    Out of myself, press me to death with wit!
    Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire,
    Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly.
    It were a better death than die with mocks,
    Which is as bad as die with tickling.
  Urs. Yet tell her of it. Hear what she will say.
  Hero. No; rather I will go to Benedick
    And counsel him to fight against his passion.
    And truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
    To stain my cousin with. One doth not know
    How much an ill word may empoison liking.
  Urs. O, do not do your cousin such a wrong!
    She cannot be so much without true judgment
    (Having so swift and excellent a wit
    As she is priz'd to have) as to refuse
    So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.
  Hero. He is the only man of Italy,
    Always excepted my dear Claudio.
  Urs. I pray you be not angry with me, madam,
    Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick,
    For shape, for bearing, argument, and valour,
    Goes foremost in report through Italy.
  Hero. Indeed he hath an excellent good name.
  Urs. His excellence did earn it ere he had it.
    When are you married, madam?
  Hero. Why, every day to-morrow! Come, go in.
    I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel
    Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
                                               [They walk away.]
  Urs. She's lim'd, I warrant you! We have caught her, madam.
  Hero. If it prove so, then loving goes by haps;
    Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
                                       Exeunt [Hero and Ursula].

    [Beatrice advances from the arbour.]

  Beat. What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true?
    Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much?
    Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu!
    No glory lives behind the back of such.
    And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
    Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand.
    If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
    To bind our loves up in a holy band;
    For others say thou dost deserve, and I
    Believe it better than reportingly.     