omfort
    Is still a dying horror!
  PROVOST. 'Tis pity of him.                              Exeunt




SCENE IV.
ANGELO'S house

Enter ANGELO

  ANGELO. When I would pray and think, I think and pray
    To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words,
    Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue,
    Anchors on Isabel. Heaven in my mouth,
    As if I did but only chew his name,
    And in my heart the strong and swelling evil
    Of my conception. The state whereon I studied
    Is, like a good thing being often read,
    Grown sere and tedious; yea, my gravity,
    Wherein- let no man hear me- I take pride,
    Could I with boot change for an idle plume
    Which the air beats for vain. O place, O form,
    How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit,
    Wrench awe from fools, and tie the wiser souls
    To thy false seeming! Blood, thou art blood.
    Let's write 'good angel' on the devil's horn;
    'Tis not the devil's crest.

                           Enter SERVANT

    How now, who's there?
  SERVANT. One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.
  ANGELO. Teach her the way. [Exit SERVANT] O heavens!
    Why does my blood thus muster to my heart,
    Making both it unable for itself
    And dispossessing all my other parts
    Of necessary fitness?
    So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons;
    Come all to help him, and so stop the air
    By which he should revive; and even so
    The general subject to a well-wish'd king
    Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness
    Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
    Must needs appear offence.

                            Enter ISABELLA

    How now, fair maid?
  ISABELLA. I am come to know your pleasure.
  ANGELO. That you might know it would much better please me
    Than to demand what 'tis. Your brother cannot live.
  ISABELLA. Even so! Heaven keep your honour!
  ANGELO. Yet may he live awhile, and, it may be,
    As long as you or I; yet he must die.
  ISABELLA. Under your sentence?
  ANGELO. Yea.
  ISABELLA. When? I beseech you; that in his reprieve,
    Longer or shorter, he may be so fitted
    That his soul sicken not.
  ANGELO. Ha! Fie, these filthy vices! It were as good
    To pardon him that hath from nature stol'n
    A man already made, as to remit
    Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven's image
    In stamps that are forbid; 'tis all as easy
    Falsely to take away a life true made
    As to put metal in restrained means
    To make a false one.
  ISABELLA. 'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth.
  ANGELO. Say you so? Then I shall pose you quickly.
    Which had you rather- that the most just law
    Now took your brother's life; or, to redeem him,
    Give up your body to such s