es. I have professed me thy friend, and I confess me knit to
    thy deserving with cables of perdurable toughness; I could never
    better stead thee than now. Put money in thy purse; follow thou
    the wars; defeat thy favor with an usurped beard. I say, put
    money in thy purse. It cannot be that Desdemona should long
    continue her love to the Moor- put money in thy purse- nor he his
    to her. It was a violent commencement, and thou shalt see an
    answerable sequestration- put but money in thy purse. These Moors
    are changeable in their wills- fill thy purse with money. The
    food that to him now is as luscious as locusts, shall be to him
    shortly as acerb as the coloquintida. She must change for youth;
    when she is sated with his body, she will find the error of her
    choice. She must have change, she must; therefore put money in
    thy purse. If thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a more delicate
    way than drowning. Make all the money thou canst. If sanctimony
    and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian and a supersubtle
    Venetian be not too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell,
    thou shalt enjoy her- therefore make money. A pox of drowning
    thyself! It is clean out of the way. Seek thou rather to be
    hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and go without
    her.
  RODERIGO. Wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if I depend on the issue?
  IAGO. Thou art sure of me- go, make money. I have told thee often,
    and I retell thee again and again, I hate the Moor. My cause is
    hearted; thine hath no less reason. Let us be conjunctive in our
    revenge against him. If thou canst cuckold him, thou dost thyself
    a pleasure, me a sport. There are many events in the womb of time
    which will be delivered. Traverse, go, provide thy money. We will
    have more of this tomorrow. Adieu.
  RODERIGO. Where shall we meet i' the morning?
  IAGO. At my lodging.
  RODERIGO. I'll be with thee betimes.
  IAGO. Go to, farewell. Do you hear, Roderigo?
  RODERIGO. What say you?
  IAGO. No more of drowning, do you hear?
  RODERIGO. I am changed; I'll go sell all my land.             Exit.
  IAGO. Thus do I ever make my fool my purse;
    For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane
    If I would time expend with such a snipe
    But for my sport and profit. I hate the Moor,
    And it is thought abroad that 'twixt my sheets
    He has done my office. I know not if't be true,
    But I for mere suspicion in that kind
    Will do as if for surety. He holds me well,
    The better shall my purpose work on him.
    Cassio's a proper man. Let me see now-
    To get his place, and to plume up my will
    In double knavery- How, how?- Let's see-
    After some time, to abuse Othello's ear
    That he is too familiar with his wife.
    He hath a person and a smooth dispo