emen both, we will not wake your patience.
    My heart is sorry for your daughter's death;
    But, on my honour, she was charg'd with nothing
    But what was true, and very full of proof.
  Leon. My lord, my lord--
  Pedro. I will not hear you.
  Leon. No? Come, brother, away!--I will be heard.
  Ant. And shall, or some of us will smart for it.
                                                    Exeunt ambo.

                  Enter Benedick.

  Pedro. See, see! Here comes the man we went to seek.
  Claud. Now, signior, what news?
  Bene. Good day, my lord.
  Pedro. Welcome, signior. You are almost come to part almost a fray.
  Claud. We had lik'd to have had our two noses snapp'd off with two
    old men without teeth.
  Pedro. Leonato and his brother. What think'st thou? Had we fought,
    I doubt we should have been too young for them.
  Bene. In a false quarrel there is no true valour. I came to seek
    you both.
  Claud. We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are high-proof
    melancholy, and would fain have it beaten away. Wilt thou use thy
    wit?
  Bene. It is in my scabbard. Shall I draw it?
  Pedro. Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side?
  Claud. Never any did so, though very many have been beside their
    wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the minstrel--draw to
    pleasure us.
  Pedro. As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou sick or
    angry?
  Claud. What, courage, man! What though care kill'd a cat, thou hast
    mettle enough in thee to kill care.
  Bene. Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career an you charge it
    against me. I pray you choose another subject.
  Claud. Nay then, give him another staff; this last was broke cross.
  Pedro. By this light, he changes more and more. I think he be angry
    indeed.
  Claud. If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.
  Bene. Shall I speak a word in your ear?
  Claud. God bless me from a challenge!
  Bene. [aside to Claudio] You are a villain. I jest not; I will make
    it good how you dare, with what you dare, and when you dare. Do
    me right, or I will protest your cowardice. You have kill'd a
    sweet lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me hear
    from you.
  Claud. Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer.
  Pedro. What, a feast, a feast?
  Claud. I' faith, I thank him, he hath bid me to a calve's head and
    a capon, the which if I do not carve most curiously, say my
    knife's naught. Shall I not find a woodcock too?
  Bene. Sir, your wit ambles well; it goes easily.
  Pedro. I'll tell thee how Beatrice prais'd thy wit the other day. I
    said thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,' said she, 'a fine little
    one.' 'No,' said I, 'a great wit.' 'Right,' says she, 'a great
    gross one.' 'Nay,' said I, 'a good wit.' 'Just,' said she, 'it
    hurts nobody.' 'Nay,' said I, 'the gentleman is wise.' 'Certain,'
    said she, a wise gentleman.' 'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the
    tongues.' 'That I believe' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me
    on Monday night which he forswore on Tuesday morning. There's a
    double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus did she an hour
    together transshape thy particular virtues. Yet at last she
    concluded with a sigh, thou wast the proper'st man in Italy.
  Claud. For the which she wept heartily and said she cared not.
  Pedro. Yea, that she did; but yet, for all that, an if she did not
    hate him deadly, she would love him dearly. The old man's
    daughter told us all.
  Claud. All, all! and moreover, God saw him when he was hid in the
    garden.
  Pedro. But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on the
    sensible Benedick's head?
  Claud. Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick, the married
    man'?
  Bene. Fare you well, boy; you know my mind. I will leave you now to
    your gossiplike humour. You break jests as braggards do their
    blades, which God be thanked hurt not. My lord, for your many
    courtesies I thank you. I must discontinue your company. Your
    brother the bastard is fled from Messina. You have among you
    kill'd a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord Lackbeard there, he
    and I shall meet; and till then peace be with him.
                                                         [Exit.]
  Pedro. He is in earnest.
  Claud. In most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for the
    love of Beatrice.
  Pedro. And hath challeng'd thee.
  Claud. Most sincerely.
  Pedro. What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and
    hose and leaves off his wit!

  Enter Constables [Dogberry and Verges, with the Watch, leading]
                      Conrade and Borachio.

  Claud. He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a doctor to
    such a man.
  Pedro. But, soft you, let me be! Pluck up, my heart, and be sad!
    Did he not say my brother was fled?
  Dog. Come you, sir. If justice cannot tame you, she shall ne'er
    weigh more reasons in her balance. Nay, an you be a cursing
    hypocrite once, you must be look'd to.
  Pedro. How now? two of my brother's men bound? Borachio one.
  Claud. Hearken after their offence, my lord.
  Pedro. Officers, what offence have these men done?
  Dog. Marry, sir, they have committed false report; moreover, they
    have spoken untruths; secondarily, they are slanders; sixth and
    lastly, they have belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified
    unjust things; and to conclude, they are lying knaves.
  Pedro. First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I ask thee
    what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why they are committed;
    and to conclude, what you lay to their charge.
  Claud. Rightly reasoned, and in his own division; and by my troth
    there's one meaning well suited.
  Pedro. Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus bound to
    your answer? This learned constable is too cunning to be
    understood. What's your offence?
  Bora. Sweet Prince, let me go no farther to mine answer. Do you
    hear me, and let this Count kill me. I have deceived even your
    very eyes. What your wisdoms could not discover, these shallow
    fools have brought to light, who in the night overheard me
    confessing to this man, how Don John your brother incensed me to
    slander the Lady Hero; how you were brought into the orchard and
    saw me court Margaret in Hero's garments; how you disgrac'd her
    when you should marry her. My villany they have upon record,
    which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my
    shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my master's false
    accusation; and briefly, I desire nothing but the reward of a
    villain.
  Pedro. Runs not this speech like iron through your blood?
  Claud. I have drunk poison whiles he utter'd it.
  Pedro. But did my brother set thee on to this?
  Bora. Yea, and paid me richly for the practice of it.
  Pedro. He is compos'd and fram'd of treachery,
    And fled he is upon this villany.
  Claud. Sweet Hero, now thy image doth appear
    In the rare semblance that I lov'd it first.
  Dog. Come, bring away the plaintiffs. By this time our sexton hath
    reformed Signior Leonato of the matter. And, masters, do not
    forget to specify, when time and place shall serve, that I am an
    ass.
  Verg. Here, here comes Master Signior Leonato, and the sexton too.

          Enter Leonato, his brother [Antonio], and the Sexton.

  Leon. Which is the villain? Let me see his eyes,
    That, when I note another man like him,
    I may avoid him. Which of these is he?
  Bora. If you would know your wronger, look on me.
  Leon. Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd
    Mine innocent child?
  Bora. Yea, even I alone.
  Leon. No, not so, villain! thou beliest thyself.
    Here stand a pair of honourable men--
    A third is fled--that had a hand in it.
    I thank you princes for my daughter's death.
    Record it with your high and worthy deeds.
    'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it.
  Claud. I know not how to pray your patience;
    Yet I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself;
    Impose me to what penance your invention
    Can lay upon my sin. Yet sinn'd I not
    But in mistaking.
  Pedro. By my soul, nor I!
    And yet, to satisfy this good old man,
    I would bend under any heavy weight
    That he'll enjoin me to.
  Leon. I cannot bid you bid my daughter live-
    That were impossible; but I pray you both,
    Possess the people in Messina here
    How innocent she died; and if your love
    Can labour aught in sad invention,
    Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb,
    And sing it to her bones--sing it to-night.
    To-morrow morning come you to my house,
    And since you could not be my son-in-law,
    Be yet my nephew. My brother hath a daughter,
    Almost the copy of my child that's dead,
    And she alone is heir to both of us.
    Give her the right you should have giv'n her cousin,
    And so dies my revenge.
  Claud. O noble sir!
    Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me.
    I do embrace your offer; and dispose
    For henceforth of poor Claudio.
  Leon. To-morrow then I will expect your coming;
    To-night I take my leave. This naughty man
    Shall fact to face be brought to Margaret,
    Who I believe was pack'd in all this wrong,
    Hir'd to it by your brother.
  Bora. No, by my soul, she was not;
    Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me;
    But always hath been just and virtuous
    In anything that I do know by her.
  Dog. Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and black, this
    plaintiff here, the offender, did call me ass. I beseech you let
    it be rememb'red in his punishment. And also the watch heard them
    talk of one Deformed. They say he wears a key in his ear, and a
    lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's name, the which he
    hath us'd so long and never paid that now men grow hard-hearted
    and will lend nothing for God's sake. Pray you examine him upon
    that point.
  Leon. I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
  Dog. Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth,
    and I praise God for you.
  Leon. There's for thy pains. [Gives money.]
  Dog. God save the foundation!
  Leon. Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
  Dog. I leave an arrant knave with your worship, which I beseech
    your worship to correct yourself, for the example of others.
    God keep your worship! I wish your worship well. God restore you
    to health! I humbly give you leave to depart; and if a merry
    meeting may be wish'd, God prohibit it! Come, neighbour.
                                   Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].
  Leon. Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell.
  Ant. Farewell, my lords. We look for you to-morrow.
  Pedro. We will not fall.
  Claud. To-night I'll mourn with Hero.
                                 [Exeunt Don Pedro and Claudio.]
  Leon. [to the Watch] Bring you these fellows on.--We'll talk with
      Margaret,
    How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene II.
Leonato's orchard.

Enter Benedick and Margaret [meeting].

  Bene. Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at my hands
    by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
  Marg. Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty?
  Bene. In so high a style, Margaret, that no man living shall come
    over it; for in most comely truth thou deservest it.
  Marg. To have no man come over me? Why, shall I always keep below
    stairs?
  Bene. Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth--it catches.
  Marg. And yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit but hurt
    not.
  Bene. A most manly wit, Margaret: it will not hurt a woman.
    And so I pray thee call Beatrice. I give thee the bucklers.
  Marg. Give us the swords; we have bucklers of our own.
  Bene. If you use them, Margaret, you must put in the pikes with a
    vice, and they are dangerous weapons for maids.
  Marg. Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
  Bene. And therefore will come.
                                                  Exit Margaret.
       [Sings] The god of love,
               That sits above
           And knows me, and knows me,
             How pitiful I deserve--

    I mean in singing; but in loving Leander the good swimmer,
    Troilus the first employer of panders, and a whole book full of
    these quondam carpet-mongers, whose names yet run smoothly in the
    even road of a blank verse--why, they were never so truly turn'd
    over and over as my poor self in love. Marry, I cannot show it in
    rhyme. I have tried. I can find out no rhyme to 'lady' but 'baby'
    --an innocent rhyme; for 'scorn,' 'horn'--a hard rhyme; for
    'school', 'fool'--a babbling rhyme: very ominous endings! No, I
    was not born under a rhyming planet, nor cannot woo in festival
    terms.

                    Enter Beatrice.

    Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I call'd thee?
  Beat. Yea, signior, and depart when you bid me.
  Bene. O, stay but till then!
  Beat. 'Then' is spoken. Fare you well now. And yet, ere I go, let
    me go with that I came for, which is, with knowing what hath
    pass'd between you and Claudio.
  Bene. Only foul words; and thereupon I will kiss thee.
  Beat. Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but foul
    breath, and foul breath is noisome. Therefore I will depart
    unkiss'd.
  Bene. Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense, so
    forcible is thy wit. But I must tell thee plainly, Claudio
    undergoes my challenge; and either I must shortly hear from him
    or I will subscribe him a coward. And I pray thee now tell me,
    for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
  Beat. For them all together, which maintain'd so politic a state of
    evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with
    them. But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love
    for me?
  Bene. Suffer love!--a good epithet. I do suffer love indeed, for I
    love thee against my will.
  Beat. In spite of your heart, I think. Alas, poor heart! If you
    spite it for my sake, I will spite it for yours, for I will never
    love that which my friend hates.
  Bene. Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably.
  Beat. It appears not in this confession. There's not one wise man
    among twenty, that will praise himself.
  Bene. An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that liv'd in the time of
    good neighbours. If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb
    ere he dies, he shall live no longer in monument than the bell
    rings and the widow weeps.
  Beat. And how long is that, think you?
  Bene. Question: why, an hour in clamour and a quarter in rheum.
    Therefore is it most expedient for the wise, if Don Worm (his
    conscience) find no impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet
    of his own virtues, as I am to myself. So much for praising
    myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is praiseworthy. And now
    tell me, how doth your cousin?
  Beat. Very ill.
  Bene. And how do you?
  Beat. Very ill too.
  Bene. Serve God, love me, and mend. There will I leave you too, for
    here comes one in haste.

                         Enter Ursula.

  Urs. Madam, you must come to your uncle. Yonder's old coil at home.
    It is proved my Lady Hero hath been falsely accus'd, the Prince
    and Claudio mightily abus'd, and Don John is the author of all,
    who is fled and gone. Will you come presently?
  Beat. Will you go hear this news, signior?
  Bene. I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be buried thy
    eyes; and moreover, I will go with thee to thy uncle's.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene III.
A churchyard.

Enter Claudio, Don Pedro, and three or four with tapers,
[followed by Musicians].

  Claud. Is this the monument of Leonato?
  Lord. It is, my lord.
  Claud. [reads from a scroll]

                      Epitaph.

        Done to death by slanderous tongues
          Was the Hero that here lies.
        Death, in guerdon of her wrongs,
          Gives her fame which never dies.
        So the life that died with shame
        Lives in death with glorious fame.

    Hang thou there upon the tomb,
                                          [Hangs up the scroll.]
    Praising her when I am dumb.
    Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn.

                     Song.

        Pardon, goddess of the night,
        Those that slew thy virgin knight;
        For the which, with songs of woe,
        Round about her tomb they go.
        Midnight, assist our moan,
        Help us to sigh and groan
          Heavily, heavily,
        Graves, yawn and yield your dead,
        Till death be uttered
          Heavily, heavily.

  Claud. Now unto thy bones good night!
    Yearly will I do this rite.
  Pedro. Good morrow, masters. Put your torches out.
    The wolves have prey'd, and look, the gentle day,
    Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about
    Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
    Thanks to you all, and leave us. Fare you well.
  Claud. Good morrow, masters. Each his several way.
  Pedro. Come, let us hence and put on other weeds,
    And then to Leonato's we will go.
  Claud. And Hymen now with luckier issue speeds
    Than this for whom we rend'red up this woe.          Exeunt.




Scene IV
The hall in Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato, Benedick, [Beatrice,] Margaret, Ursula, Antonio,
Friar [Francis], Hero.

  Friar. Did I not tell you she was innocent?
  Leon. So are the Prince and Claudio, who accus'd her
    Upon the error that you heard debated.
    But Margaret was in some fault for this,
    Although against her will, as it appears
    In the true course of all the question.
  Ant. Well, I am glad that all things sort so well.
  Bene. And so am I, being else by faith enforc'd
    To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
  Leon. Well, daughter, and you gentlewomen all,
    Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves,
    And when I send for you, come hither mask'd.
                                                  Exeunt Ladies.
    The Prince and Claudio promis'd by this hour
    To visit me. You know your office, brother:
    You must be father to your brother's daughter,
    And give her to young Claudio.
  Ant. Which I will do with confirm'd countenance.
  Bene. Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.
  Friar. To do what, signior?
  Bene. To bind me, or undo me--one of them.
    Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior,
    Your niece regards me with an eye of favour.
  Leon. That eye my daughter lent her. 'Tis most true.
  Bene. And I do with an eye of love requite her.
  Leon. The sight whereof I think you had from me,
    From Claudio, and the Prince; but what's your will?
  Bene. Your answer, sir, is enigmatical;
    But, for my will, my will is, your good will
    May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd
    In the state of honourable marriage