ke to land them on our coast
    And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
    'Tis not his new-made bride shall succour him;
    And as for Clarence, as my letters tell me,
    He's very likely now to fall from him
    For matching more for wanton lust than honour
    Or than for strength and safety of our country.
  BONA. Dear brother, how shall Bona be reveng'd
    But by thy help to this distressed queen?
  QUEEN MARGARET. Renowned Prince, how shall poor Henry live
    Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
  BONA. My quarrel and this English queen's are one.
  WARWICK. And mine, fair Lady Bona, joins with yours.
  LEWIS. And mine with hers, and thine, and Margaret's.
    Therefore, at last, I firmly am resolv'd
    You shall have aid.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
  LEWIS. Then, England's messenger, return in post
    And tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
    That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
    To revel it with him and his new bride.
    Thou seest what's past; go fear thy king withal.
  BONA. Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
    I'll wear the willow-garland for his sake.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Tell him my mourning weeds are laid aside,
    And I am ready to put armour on.
  WARWICK. Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
    And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.
    There's thy reward; be gone.                       Exit POST
  LEWIS. But, Warwick,
    Thou and Oxford, with five thousand men,
    Shall cross the seas and bid false Edward battle:
    And, as occasion serves, this noble Queen
    And Prince shall follow with a fresh supply.
    Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt:
    What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?
  WARWICK. This shall assure my constant loyalty:
    That if our Queen and this young Prince agree,
    I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy
    To him forthwith in holy wedlock bands.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion.
    Son Edward, she is fair and virtuous,
    Therefore delay not- give thy hand to Warwick;
    And with thy hand thy faith irrevocable
    That only Warwick's daughter shall be thine.
  PRINCE OF WALES. Yes, I accept her, for she well deserves it;
    And here, to pledge my vow, I give my hand.
                                  [He gives his hand to WARWICK]
  LEWIS. stay we now? These soldiers shall be levied;
    And thou, Lord Bourbon, our High Admiral,
    Shall waft them over with our royal fleet.
    I long till Edward fall by war's mischance
    For mocking marriage with a dame of France.
                                          Exeunt all but WARWICK
  WARWICK. I came from Edward as ambassador,
    But I return his sworn and mortal foe.
    Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
    But dreadful war shall answer his demand.
    Had he none else to make a stale but me?
    Then none b