ver cried 'Stand!'
    to a true man.
  Prince. Good morrow, Ned.
  Poins. Good morrow, sweet Hal. What says Monsieur Remorse? What
    says Sir John Sack and Sugar? Jack, how agrees the devil and thee
    about thy soul, that thou soldest him on Good Friday last for a
    cup of Madeira and a cold capon's leg?
  Prince. Sir John stands to his word, the devil shall have his
    bargain; for he was never yet a breaker of proverbs. He will give
    the devil his due.
  Poins. Then art thou damn'd for keeping thy word with the devil.
  Prince. Else he had been damn'd for cozening the devil.
  Poins. But, my lads, my lads, to-morrow morning, by four o'clock
    early, at Gadshill! There are pilgrims gong to Canterbury with
    rich offerings, and traders riding to London with fat purses. I
    have vizards for you all; you have horses for yourselves.
    Gadshill lies to-night in Rochester. I have bespoke supper
    to-morrow night in Eastcheap. We may do it as secure as sleep. If
    you will go, I will stuff your purses full of crowns; if you will
    not, tarry at home and be hang'd!
  Fal. Hear ye, Yedward: if I tarry at home and go not, I'll hang you
    for going.
  Poins. You will, chops?
  Fal. Hal, wilt thou make one?
  Prince. Who, I rob? I a thief? Not I, by my faith.
  Fal. There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good fellowship in thee,
    nor thou cam'st not of the blood royal if thou darest not stand
    for ten shillings.
  Prince. Well then, once in my days I'll be a madcap.
  Fal. Why, that's well said.
  Prince. Well, come what will, I'll tarry at home.
  Fal. By the Lord, I'll be a traitor then, when thou art king.
  Prince. I care not.
  Poins. Sir John, I prithee, leave the Prince and me alone. I will
    lay him down such reasons for this adventure that he shall go.
  Fal. Well, God give thee the spirit of persuasion and him the ears
    of profiting, that what thou speakest may move and what he hears
    may be believed, that the true prince may (for recreation sake)
    prove a false thief; for the poor abuses of the time want
    countenance. Farewell; you shall find me in Eastcheap.
  Prince. Farewell, thou latter spring! farewell, All-hallown summer!
                                                  Exit Falstaff.
  Poins. Now, my good sweet honey lord, ride with us to-morrow. I
    have a jest to execute that I cannot manage alone. Falstaff,
    Bardolph, Peto, and Gadshill shall rob those men that we have
    already waylaid; yourself and I will not be there; and when they
    have the booty, if you and I do not rob them, cut this head off
    from my shoulders.
  Prince. How shall we part with them in setting forth?
  Poins. Why, we will set forth before or after them and appoint them
    a place of meeting, wherein it is at our pleasure to fail; and
    then will they adventure upon the exploit themselves; which they
    shall have no sooner achieved, but we'll