ero's virtue.
    What man was he talk'd with you yesternight,
    Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
    Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
  Hero. I talk'd with no man at that hour, my lord.
  Pedro. Why, then are you no maiden. Leonato,
    I am sorry you must hear. Upon my honour,
    Myself, my brother, and this grieved Count
    Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night
    Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window,
    Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain,
    Confess'd the vile encounters they have had
    A thousand times in secret.
  John. Fie, fie! they are not to be nam'd, my lord--
    Not to be spoke of;
    There is not chastity, enough in language
    Without offence to utter them. Thus, pretty lady,
    I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
  Claud. O Hero! what a Hero hadst thou been
    If half thy outward graces had been plac'd
    About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart!
    But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! Farewell,
    Thou pure impiety and impious purity!
    For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love,
    And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang,
    To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm,
    And never shall it more be gracious.
  Leon. Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
                                                  [Hero swoons.]
  Beat. Why, how now, cousin? Wherefore sink you down?
  John. Come let us go. These things, come thus to light,
    Smother her spirits up.
                      [Exeunt Don Pedro, Don Juan, and Claudio.]
  Bene. How doth the lady?
  Beat. Dead, I think. Help, uncle!
    Hero! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar!
  Leon. O Fate, take not away thy heavy hand!
    Death is the fairest cover for her shame
    That may be wish'd for.
  Beat. How now, cousin Hero?
  Friar. Have comfort, lady.
  Leon. Dost thou look up?
  Friar. Yea, wherefore should she not?
  Leon. Wherefore? Why, doth not every earthly thing
    Cry shame upon her? Could she here deny
    The story that is printed in her blood?
    Do not live, Hero; do not ope thine eyes;
    For, did I think thou wouldst not quickly die,
    Thought I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames,
    Myself would on the rearward of reproaches
    Strike at thy life. Griev'd I, I had but one?
    Child I for that at frugal nature's frame?
    O, one too much by thee! Why had I one?
    Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
    Why had I not with charitable hand
    Took up a beggar's issue at my gates,
    Who smirched thus and mir'd with infamy,
    I might have said, 'No part of it is mine;
    This shame derives itself from unknown loins'?
    But mine, and mine I lov'd, and mine I prais'd,
    And mine that I was proud on--mine so much
    That I myself was to myself not mine,
    Valuing of her--why, she, O, she is fall'n
    Into a pit of ink, that the wide sea
    Hath drops too few to wash her clean again,
    And salt too little which may season give
    To 