d sandbag,
                  and PRENTICES drinking to him

  FIRST NEIGHBOUR. Here, neighbour Horner, I drink to you in a cup of
    sack; and fear not, neighbour, you shall do well enough.
  SECOND NEIGHBOUR. And here, neighbour, here's a cup of charneco.
  THIRD NEIGHBOUR. And here's a pot of good double beer, neighbour;
    drink, and fear not your man.
  HORNER. Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all; and a fig
    for Peter!
  FIRST PRENTICE. Here, Peter, I drink to thee; and be not afraid.
  SECOND PRENTICE. Be merry, Peter, and fear not thy master: fight
    for credit of the prentices.
  PETER. I thank you all. Drink, and pray for me, I pray you; for I
    think I have taken my last draught in this world. Here, Robin, an
    if I die, I give thee my apron; and, Will, thou shalt have my
    hammer; and here, Tom, take all the money that I have. O Lord
    bless me, I pray God! for I am never able to deal with my master,
    he hath learnt so much fence already.
  SALISBURY. Come, leave your drinking and fall to blows.
    Sirrah, what's thy name?
  PETER. Peter, forsooth.
  SALISBURY. Peter? What more?
  PETER. Thump.
  SALISBURY. Thump? Then see thou thump thy master well.
  HORNER. Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man's
    instigation, to prove him a knave and myself an honest man; and
    touching the Duke of York, I will take my death I never meant him
    any ill, nor the King, nor the Queen; and therefore, Peter, have
    at thee with a down right blow!
  YORK. Dispatch- this knave's tongue begins to double.
    Sound, trumpets, alarum to the combatants!
                 [Alarum. They fight and PETER strikes him down]
  HORNER. Hold, Peter, hold! I confess, I confess treason.
                                                          [Dies]
  YORK. Take away his weapon. Fellow, thank God, and the good wine in
    thy master's way.
  PETER. O God, have I overcome mine enemies in this presence? O
    Peter, thou hast prevail'd in right!
  KING HENRY. Go, take hence that traitor from our sight,
    For by his death we do perceive his guilt;
    And God in justice hath reveal'd to us
    The truth and innocence of this poor fellow,
    Which he had thought to have murder'd wrongfully.
    Come, fellow, follow us for thy reward.
                                        Sound a flourish. Exeunt




SCENE IV.
London. A street

Enter DUKE HUMPHREY and his men, in mourning cloaks

  GLOUCESTER. Thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud,
    And after summer evermore succeeds
    Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping cold;
    So cares and joys abound, as seasons fleet.
    Sirs, what's o'clock?
  SERVING-MAN. Ten, my lord.
  GLOUCESTER. Ten is the hour that was appointed me
    To watch the coming of my punish'd duchess.
    Uneath may she endure the flinty streets
    To tread them with her tender-feeling feet.
    Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook
    The abject people gazing on thy face,
    With envious looks, laughing at thy shame,
    That erst did follow thy proud chariot wheels
    When thou didst ride in triump