er with
    crying; for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baes will
    never answer a calf when he bleats.
  Verg. 'Tis very true.
  Dog. This is the end of the charge: you, constable, are to present
    the Prince's own person. If you meet the Prince in the night,
    you may stay him.
  Verg. Nay, by'r lady, that I think 'a cannot.
  Dog. Five shillings to one on't with any man that knows the
    statutes, he may stay him! Marry, not without the Prince be
    willing; for indeed the watch ought to offend no man, and it is
    an offence to stay a man against his will.
  Verg. By'r lady, I think it be so.
  Dog. Ha, ah, ha! Well, masters, good night. An there be any matter
    of weight chances, call up me. Keep your fellows' counsels and
    your own, and good night. Come, neighbour.
  2. Watch. Well, masters, we hear our charge. Let us go sit here
    upon the church bench till two, and then all to bed.
  Dog. One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch about
    Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being there tomorrow,
    there is a great coil to-night. Adieu. Be vigitant, I beseech
    you.                           Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].

                     Enter Borachio and Conrade.

  Bora. What, Conrade!
  2. Watch. [aside] Peace! stir not!
  Bora. Conrade, I say!
  Con. Here, man. I am at thy elbow.
  Bora. Mass, and my elbow itch'd! I thought there would a scab
    follow.
  Con. I will owe thee an answer for that; and now forward with thy
    tale.
  Bora. Stand thee close then under this penthouse, for it drizzles
    rain, and I will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee.
  2. Watch. [aside] Some treason, masters. Yet stand close.
  Bora. Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
  Con. Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
  Bora. Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villany
    should be so rich; for when rich villains have need of poor ones,
    poor ones may make what price they will.
  Con. I wonder at it.
  Bora. That shows thou art unconfirm'd. Thou knowest that the
    fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to a man.
  Con. Yes, it is apparel.
  Bora. I mean the fashion.
  Con. Yes, the fashion is the fashion.
  Bora. Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But seest thou
    not what a deformed thief this fashion is?
  2. Watch. [aside] I know that Deformed. 'A bas been a vile thief
    this seven year; 'a goes up and down like a gentleman. I remember
    his name.
  Bora. Didst thou not hear somebody?
  Con. No; 'twas the vane on the house.
  Bora. Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this fashion is?
    how giddily 'a turns about all the hot-bloods between fourteen
    and five-and-thirty? sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's
    soldiers in the reechy painting, sometime like god Bel's priests
    in the old church window, sometime like the shaven Hercules in
    the smirch'd worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as
    massy as his club?
  Con. All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears out more
    apparel than the man. But art not thou thyself giddy with the
    fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling
    me of the fashion?
  Bora. Not so neither. But know that I have to-night wooed Margaret,
    the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero. She leans me
    out at her mistress' chamber window, bids m