n with Mistress Shore.
  BUCKINGHAM. Yet had we not determin'd he should die
    Until your lordship came to see his end-
    Which now the loving haste of these our friends,
    Something against our meanings, have prevented-
    Because, my lord, I would have had you heard
    The traitor speak, and timorously confess
    The manner and the purpose of his treasons:
    That you might well have signified the same
    Unto the citizens, who haply may
    Misconster us in him and wail his death.
  MAYOR. But, my good lord, your Grace's words shall serve
    As well as I had seen and heard him speak;
    And do not doubt, right noble Princes both,
    But I'll acquaint our duteous citizens
    With all your just proceedings in this cause.
  GLOUCESTER. And to that end we wish'd your lordship here,
    T' avoid the the the censures of the carping world.
  BUCKINGHAM. Which since you come too late of our intent,
    Yet witness what you hear we did intend.
    And so, my good Lord Mayor, we bid farewell.
                                                 Exit LORD MAYOR
  GLOUCESTER. Go, after, after, cousin Buckingham.
    The Mayor towards Guildhall hies him in an post.
    There, at your meet'st advantage of the time,
    Infer the bastardy of Edward's children.
    Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen
    Only for saying he would make his son
    Heir to the crown-meaning indeed his house,
    Which by the sign thereof was termed so.
    Moreover, urge his hateful luxury
    And bestial appetite in change of lust,
    Which stretch'd unto their servants, daughters, wives,
    Even where his raging eye or savage heart
    Without control lusted to make a prey.
    Nay, for a need, thus far come near my person:
    Tell them, when that my mother went with child
    Of that insatiate Edward, noble York
    My princely father then had wars in France
    And, by true computation of the time,
    Found that the issue was not his begot;
    Which well appeared in his lineaments,
    Being nothing like the noble Duke my father.
    Yet touch this sparingly, as 'twere far off;
    Because, my lord, you know my mother lives.
  BUCKINGHAM. Doubt not, my lord, I'll play the orator
    As if the golden fee for which I plead
    Were for myself; and so, my lord, adieu.
  GLOUCESTER. If you thrive well, bring them to Baynard's
    Castle;
    Where you shall find me well accompanied
    With reverend fathers and well learned bishops.
  BUCKINGHAM. I go; and towards three or four o'clock
    Look for the news that the Guildhall affords.           Exit
  GLOUCESTER. Go, Lovel, with all speed to Doctor Shaw.
    [To CATESBY]  Go thou to Friar Penker. Bid them both
    Meet me within this hour at Baynard's Castle.
                                       Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
    Now will I go to take some privy order
    To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight,
    And to give order that no manner person
    Have any time recourse unto the Princes.                Exit




SCENE 6.

London. A street

Enter a SCRIVENER

  SCRIVENER. Here is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings;
    Which in a set hand fairly is engross'd
    That it may be to-day read o'er in Paul's.
    And mark how well the sequel hangs together:
    Eleven hours I have spent to write it over,
    For yesternight by Catesby was it sent me;
    The precedent was full as long a-doing;
    And yet within these five hours Hastings liv'd,
    Untainted, unexamin'd, free, at 