ost?
    Ha!
    Not she; nor doth she tempt; but it is I
    That, lying by the violet in the sun,
    Do as the carrion does, not as the flow'r,
    Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be
    That modesty may more betray our sense
    Than woman's lightness? Having waste ground enough,
    Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary,
    And pitch our evils there? O, fie, fie, fie!
    What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo?
    Dost thou desire her foully for those things
    That make her good? O, let her brother live!
    Thieves for their robbery have authority
    When judges steal themselves. What, do I love her,
    That I desire to hear her speak again,
    And feast upon her eyes? What is't I dream on?
    O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint,
    With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous
    Is that temptation that doth goad us on
    To sin in loving virtue. Never could the strumpet,
    With all her double vigour, art and nature,
    Once stir my temper; but this virtuous maid
    Subdues me quite. Ever till now,
    When men were fond, I smil'd and wond'red how.          Exit




SCENE III.
A prison

Enter, severally, DUKE, disguised as a FRIAR, and PROVOST

  DUKE. Hail to you, Provost! so I think you are.
  PROVOST. I am the Provost. What's your will, good friar?
  DUKE. Bound by my charity and my blest order,
    I come to visit the afflicted spirits
    Here in the prison. Do me the common right
    To let me see them, and to make me know
    The nature of their crimes, that I may minister
    To them accordingly.
  PROVOST. I would do more than that, if more were needful.

                          Enter JULIET

    Look, here comes one; a gentlewoman of mine,
    Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
    Hath blister'd her report. She is with child;
    And he that got it, sentenc'd- a young man
    More fit to do another such offence
    Than die for this.
  DUKE. When must he die?
  PROVOST. As I do think, to-morrow.
    [To JULIET] I have provided for you; stay awhile
    And you shall be conducted.
  DUKE. Repent you, fair one, of the sin you carry?
  JULIET. I do; and bear the shame most patiently.
  DUKE. I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience,
    And try your penitence, if it be sound
    Or hollowly put on.
  JULIET. I'll gladly learn.
  DUKE. Love you the man that wrong'd you?
  JULIET. Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him.
  DUKE. So then, it seems, your most offenceful act
    Was mutually committed.
  JULIET. Mutually.
  DUKE. Then was your sin of heavier kind than his.
  JULIET. I do confess it, and repent it, father.
  DUKE. 'Tis meet so, daughter; but lest you do repent
    As that the sin hath brought you to this shame,
    Which sorrow is always toward ourselves, not heaven,
    Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
    But as we stand in fear-
  JULIET. I do repent me as it is an evil,
    And take the shame with joy.
  DUKE. There rest.
    Your partner, as I hear, must die to-morrow,
    And I am going with instruction to him.
    Grace go with you! Benedicite!                          Exit
  JULIET. Must die to-morrow! O, injurious law,
    That respites me a life whose very comfort
    Is still a dying horror!
  PROVOST. 'Tis pity of him.                              Exeunt




SCENE IV.
ANGELO'S house

Enter ANGELO

  ANGELO. When I would pray and think, I think and pray
    To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words,
    Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue,
    Anchors on Isabel. Heaven in my mouth,
    As if I did but only chew his name,
    And in my heart the strong and swelling evil
    Of my conception. The state whereon I studied
    Is, like a good thing being often read,
    Grown sere and tedious; yea, my gravity,
    Wherein- let no man hear me- I take pride,
    Could I with boot change for an idle plume
    Which the air beats for vain. O place, O form,
    How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit,
    W