ned and twilled brims,
    Which spongy April at thy hest betrims,
    To make cold nymphs chaste crowns; and thy broom groves,
    Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves,
    Being lass-lorn; thy pole-clipt vineyard;
    And thy sea-marge, sterile and rocky hard,
    Where thou thyself dost air-the Queen o' th' sky,
    Whose wat'ry arch and messenger am I,
    Bids thee leave these; and with her sovereign grace,
    Here on this grass-plot, in this very place,
    To come and sport. Her peacocks fly amain.
                                      [JUNO descends in her car]
    Approach, rich Ceres, her to entertain.

                        Enter CERES

  CERES. Hail, many-coloured messenger, that ne'er
    Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter;
    Who, with thy saffron wings, upon my flow'rs
    Diffusest honey drops, refreshing show'rs;
    And with each end of thy blue bow dost crown
    My bosky acres and my unshrubb'd down,
    Rich scarf to my proud earth-why hath thy Queen
    Summon'd me hither to this short-grass'd green?
  IRIS. A contract of true love to celebrate,
    And some donation freely to estate
    On the blest lovers.
  CERES. Tell me, heavenly bow,
    If Venus or her son, as thou dost know,
    Do now attend the Queen? Since they did plot
    The means that dusky Dis my daughter got,
    Her and her blind boy's scandal'd company
    I have forsworn.
  IRIS. Of her society
    Be not afraid. I met her Deity
    Cutting the clouds towards Paphos, and her son
    Dove-drawn with her. Here thought they to have done
    Some wanton charm upon this man and maid,
    Whose vows are that no bed-rite shall be paid
    Till Hymen's torch be lighted; but in vain.
    Mars's hot minion is return'd again;
    Her waspish-headed son has broke his arrows,
    Swears he will shoot no more, but play with sparrows,
    And be a boy right out.                       [JUNO alights]
  CERES. Highest Queen of State,
    Great Juno, comes; I know her by her gait.
  JUNO. How does my bounteous sister? Go with me
    To bless this twain, that they may prosperous be,
    And honour'd in their issue.                     [They sing]
  JUNO. Honour, riches, marriage-blessing,
    Long continuance, and increasing,
    Hourly joys be still upon you!
    Juno sings her blessings on you.
  CERES. Earth's increase, foison plenty,
    Barns and gamers never empty;
    Vines with clust'ring bunches growing,
    Plants with goodly burden bowing;
    Spring come to you at the farthest,
    In the very end of harvest!
    Scarcity and want shall shun you,
    Ceres' blessing so is on you.
  FERDINAND. This is a most majestic vision, and
    Harmonious charmingly. May I be bold
    To think these spirits?
  PROSPERO. Spirits, which by mine art
    I have from their confines call'd to enact
    My present fancies.
  FERDINAND. Let me live here ever;
    So rare a wond'red father and a wise
    Makes this place Paradise.
           [JUNO and CERES whisper, and send IRIS on employment]
  PROSPERO. Sweet now, silence;
    Juno and Ceres whisper seriously.
    There's something else to do; hush, and be mute,
    Or else our spell is marr'd.
  IRIS. You nymphs, call'd Naiads, of the wind'ring brooks,
    With your sedg'd crowns and ever harmless looks,
    Leave your crisp channels, and on this green land
    Answer your summons; Juno does command.
    Come, temperate nymphs, and help to celebrate
    A contract of true love; be not too late.

                      Enter certain NYMPHS

    You sun-burnt sicklemen, of August weary,
    Come hither from the furrow, and be merry;
    Make holiday; your rye-straw hats put on,
    And these fresh nymphs encounter every one
    In country footing.

        Enter certain REAPERS, properly habited; they join
         with the NYMPHS in a graceful dance; towards the
         end whereof PROSPERO starts suddenly, and speaks,
          after which, to a strange, hollow, and confused
                  noise, they heavily vanish

