 us put it presently.                 Exeunt.




Scene II.
A room in Leonato's house.

Enter [at one door] Leonato and [at another door, Antonio] an old man,
brother to Leonato.

  Leon. How now, brother? Where is my cousin your son? Hath he
    provided this music?
  Ant. He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell you strange
    news that you yet dreamt not of.
  Leon. Are they good?
  Ant. As the event stamps them; but they have a good cover, they
    show well outward. The Prince and Count Claudio, walking in a
    thick-pleached alley in mine orchard, were thus much overheard by
    a man of mine: the Prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my
    niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it this night in a
    dance, and if he found her accordant, he meant to take the
    present time by the top and instantly break with you of it.
  Leon. Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
  Ant. A good sharp fellow. I will send for him, and question him
    yourself.
  Leon. No, no. We will hold it as a dream till it appear itself; but
    I will acquaint my daughter withal, that she may be the better
    prepared for an answer, if peradventure this be true. Go you and
    tell her of it.                              [Exit Antonio.]

         [Enter Antonio's Son with a Musician, and others.]

    [To the Son] Cousin, you know what you have to do.
    --[To the Musician] O, I cry you mercy, friend. Go you with me,
    and I will use your skill.--Good cousin, have a care this busy
    time.                                                Exeunt.




Scene III.
Another room in Leonato's house.]

Enter Sir John the Bastard and Conrade, his companion.

  Con. What the goodyear, my lord! Why are you thus out of measure
    sad?
  John. There is no measure in the occasion that breeds; therefore
    the sadness is without limit.
  Con. You should hear reason.
  John. And when I have heard it, what blessings brings it?
  Con. If not a present remedy, at least a patient sufferance.
  John. I wonder that thou (being, as thou say'st thou art, born
    under Saturn) goest about to apply a moral medicine to a
    mortifying mischief. I cannot hide what I am: I must be sad when
    I have cause, and smile at no man's jests; eat when I have
    stomach, and wait for no man's leisure; sleep when I am drowsy,
    and tend on no man's business; laugh when I am merry, and claw no
    man in his humour.
  Con. Yea, but you must not make the full show of this till you may
    do it without controlment. You have of late stood out against
    your brother, and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace, where
    it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair
    weather that you make yourself. It is needful that you frame the
    season for your own harvest.
  John. I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace,
    and it better fits my blood to be disdain'd of all than to
    fashion a carriage to rob love from any. In this, though I cannot
    be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied but
    I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with a muzzle and
    enfranchis'd with a clog; therefore I have decreed not to sing in
    my cage. If I had my mouth, I would bite; if I had my liberty, I
    would do my liking. In the meantime let me be that I am, and seek
    not to alter me.
  Con. Can you make no use of your discontent?
  John. I make all use of it, for I use it only.

                       Enter Borachio.

    Who comes here? What news, Borachio?
  Bora. I came yonder from a great supper. The Prince your brother is
    royally entertain'd by Leonato, and I can give you intelligence
    of an intended marriage.
  John. Will it serve for any model to build mischief on?
    What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness?
  Bora. Marry, it is your brother's right hand.
  John. Who? the most exquisite Claudio?
  Bora. Even he.
  John. A proper squire! And who? and who? which way looks he?
  Bora. Marry, on