le man almost to death.
    I'll get me to a place more void and there
    Speak to great Caesar as he comes along.               Exit.
  PORTIA. I must go in. Ay me, how weak a thing
    The heart of woman is! O Brutus,
    The heavens speed thee in thine enterprise!
    Sure, the boy heard me. Brutus hath a suit
    That Caesar will not grant. O, I grow faint.
    Run, Lucius, and commend me to my lord;
    Say I am merry. Come to me again,
    And bring me word what he doth say to thee.
                                               Exeunt severally.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT III. SCENE I.
Rome. Before the Capitol; the Senate sitting above.
A crowd of people, among them Artemidorus and the Soothsayer.

Flourish. Enter Caesar, Brutus, Cassius, Casca, Decius, Metellus,
Trebonius, Cinna, Antony, Lepidus, Popilius, Publius, and others.

  CAESAR. The ides of March are come.
  SOOTHSAYER. Ay, Caesar, but not gone.
  A Hail, Caesar! Read this schedule.
  DECIUS. Trebonius doth desire you to o'er read,
    At your best leisure, this his humble suit.
  ARTEMIDORUS. O Caesar, read mine first, for mine's a suit
    That touches Caesar nearer. Read it, great Caesar.
  CAESAR. What touches us ourself shall be last served.
  ARTEMIDORUS. Delay not, Caesar; read it instantly.
  CAESAR. What, is the fellow mad?
  PUBLIUS. Sirrah, give place.
  CASSIUS. What, urge you your petitions in the street?
    Come to the Capitol.

      Caesar goes up to the Senate House, the rest follow.

  POPILIUS. I wish your enterprise today may thrive.
  CASSIUS. What enterprise, Popilius?
  POPILIUS. Fare you well.
                                             Advances to Caesar.
  BRUTUS. What said Popilius Lena?
  CASSIUS. He wish'd today our enterprise might thrive.
    I fear our purpose is discovered.
  BRUTUS. Look, how he makes to Caesar. Mark him.
  CASSIUS. Casca,
    Be sudden, for we fear prevention.
    Brutus, what shall be done? If this be known,
    Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back,
    For I will slay myself.
  BRUTUS. Cassius, be constant.
    Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes;
    For, look, he smiles, and Caesar doth not change.
  CASSIUS. Trebonius knows his time, for, look you, Brutus,
    He draws Mark Antony out of the way.
                                    Exeunt Antony and Trebonius.
  DECIUS. Where is Metellus Cimber? Let him
    And presently prefer his suit to Caesar.
  BRUTUS. He is address'd; press near and second him.
  CINNA. Casca, you are the first that rears your hand.
  CAESAR. Are we all ready? What is now amiss
    That Caesar and his Senate must redress?
  METELLUS. Most high, most mighty, and most puissant Caesar,
    Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat
    An humble heart.                                     Kneels.
  CAESAR. I must prevent thee, Cimber.
    These couchings and these lowly courtesies
    Might fire the blood of ordinary men
    And turn preordinance and first decree
    Into the law of children. Be not fond
    To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood
    That will be thaw'd from the true quality
    With that which melteth fools- I mean sweet words,
    Low-crooked court'sies, and base spaniel-fawning.
    Thy brother by decree is banished.
    If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him,
    I spurn thee like a cur out of my way.
    Know, Caesar doth not wrong, nor without cause
    Will he be satisfied.
  METELLUS. Is there no voice more worthy than my own,
    To sound more sweetly in great Caesar's ear
    For the repealing of my banish'd brother?
  BRUTUS. I kiss thy hand, but not in flattery, Caesar,
    Desiring thee that Publius Cimber may
    Have an immediate freedom of repeal.
  CAESAR. What, Brutus?
  CASSIUS. Pardon, Caesar! Caesar, pardon!
    As low as to thy foot doth Cassius fall
    To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber.
  CAESAR. I could be well moved, if I were as you;
    If I could pray to move, prayers would move me;
    But I am constant as the northern star,
    Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality
    There is no fellow in the firmament.
    The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks;
    They are all fire and every one doth shine;
    But there's but one in all doth hold his place.
    So in the world, 'tis furnish'd well with men,
    And men are flesh and blood, and apprehensive;
    Yet in the number I do know but one
    That unassailable holds on his rank,
    Unshaked of motion; and that I am he,
    Let me a little show it, even in this;
    That I was constant Cimber should be banish'd,
    And constant do remain to keep him so.
  CINNA. O Caesar-
  CAESAR. Hence! Wilt thou lift up Olympus?
  DECIUS. Great Caesar-
  CAESAR. Doth not Brutus bootless kneel?
  CASCA. Speak, hands, for me!
                        Casca first, then the other Conspirators
                                  and Marcus Brutus stab Caesar.
  CAESAR. Et tu, Brute?- Then fall, Caesar! Dies.
  CINNA. Liberty! Freedom! Tyranny is dead!
    Run hence, proclaim, cry it about the streets.
  CASSIUS. Some to the common pulpits and cry out
    "Liberty, freedom, and enfranchisement!"
  BRUTUS. People and senators, be not affrighted,
    Fly not, stand still; ambition's debt is paid.
  CASCA. Go to the pulpit, Brutus.
  DECIUS. And Cassius too.
  BRUTUS. Where's Publius?
  CINNA. Here, quite confounded with this mutiny.
  METELLUS. Stand fast together, lest some friend of Caesar's
    Should chance-
  BRUTUS. Talk not of standing. Publius, good cheer,
    There is no harm intended to your person,
    Nor to no Roman else. So tell them, Publius.
  CASSIUS. And leave us, Publius, lest that the people
    Rushing on us should do your age some mischief.
  BRUTUS. Do so, and let no man abide this deed
    But we the doers.

                        Re-enter Trebonius.

  CASSIUS. Where is Antony?
  TREBONIUS. Fled to his house amazed.
    Men, wives, and children stare, cry out, and run
    As it were doomsday.
  BRUTUS. Fates, we will know your pleasures.
    That we shall die, we know; 'tis but the time
    And drawing days out that men stand upon.
  CASSIUS. Why, he that cuts off twenty years of life
    Cuts off so many years of fearing death.
  BRUTUS. Grant that, and then is death a benefit;
    So are we Caesar's friends that have abridged
    His time of fearing death. Stoop, Romans, stoop,
    And let us bathe our hands in Caesar's blood
    Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords;
    Then walk we forth, even to the marketplace,
    And waving our red weapons o'er our heads,
    Let's all cry, "Peace, freedom, and liberty!"
  CASSIUS. Stoop then, and wash. How many ages hence
    Shall this our lofty scene be acted over
    In states unborn and accents yet unknown!
  BRUTUS. How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport,
    That now on Pompey's basis lies along
    No worthier than the dust!
  CASSIUS. So oft as that shall be,
    So often shall the knot of us be call'd
    The men that gave their country liberty.
  DECIUS. What, shall we forth?
  CASSIUS. Ay, every man away.
    Brutus shall lead, and we will grace his heels
    With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome.

                        Enter a Servant.

  BRUTUS. Soft, who comes here? A friend of Antony's.
  SERVANT. Thus, Brutus, did my master bid me kneel,
    Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall down,
    And, being prostrate, thus he bade me say:
    Brutus is noble, wise, valiant, and honest;
    Caesar was mighty, bold, royal, and loving.
    Say I love Brutus and I honor him;
    Say I fear'd Caesar, honor'd him, and loved him.
    If Brutus will vouchsafe that Antony
    May safely come to him and be resolved
    How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death,
    Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead
    So well as Brutus living, but will follow
    The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus
    Thorough the hazards of this untrod state
    With all true faith. So says my master Antony.
  BRUTUS. Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman;
    I never thought him worse.
    Tell him, so please him come unto this place,
    He shall be satisfied and, by my honor,
    Depart untouch'd.
  SERVANT. I'll fetch him presently.                       Exit.
  BRUTUS. I know that we shall have him well to friend.
  CASSIUS. I wish we may, but yet have I a mind
    That fears him much, and my misgiving still
    Falls shrewdly to the purpose.

                          Re-enter Antony.

  BRUTUS. But here comes Antony. Welcome, Mark Antony.
  ANTONY. O mighty Caesar! Dost thou lie so low?
    Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils,
    Shrunk to this little measure? Fare thee well.
    I know not, gentlemen, what you intend,
    Who else must be let blood, who else is rank.
    If I myself, there is no hour so fit
    As Caesar's death's hour, nor no instrument
    Of half that worth as those your swords, made rich
    With the most noble blood of all this world.
    I do beseech ye, if you bear me hard,
    Now, whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke,
    Fulfill your pleasure. Live a thousand years,
    I shall not find myself so apt to die;
    No place will please me so, no means of death,
    As here by Caesar, and by you cut off,
    The choice and master spirits of this age.
  BRUTUS. O Antony, beg not your death of us!
    Though now we must appear bloody and cruel,
    As, by our hands and this our present act
    You see we do, yet see you but our hands
    And this the bleeding business they have done.
    Our hearts you see not; they are pitiful;
    And pity to the general wrong of Rome-
    As fire drives out fire, so pity pity-
    Hath done this deed on Caesar. For your part,
    To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony;
    Our arms in strength of malice, and our hearts
    Of brothers' temper, do receive you in
    With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
  CASSIUS. Your voice shall be as strong as any man's
    In the disposing of new dignities.
  BRUTUS. Only be patient till we have appeased
    The multitude, beside themselves with fear,
    And then we will deliver you the cause
    Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him,
    Have thus proceeded.
  ANTONY. I doubt not of your wisdom.
    Let each man render me his bloody hand.
    First, Marcus Brutus, will I shake with you;
    Next, Caius Cassius, do I take your hand;
    Now, Decius Brutus, yours; now yours, Metellus;
    Yours, Cinna; and, my valiant Casca, yours;
    Though last, not least in love, yours, good Trebonius.
    Gentlemen all- alas, what shall I say?
    My credit now stands on such slippery ground,
    That one of two bad ways you must conceit me,
    Either a coward or a flatterer.
    That I did love thee, Caesar, O, 'tis true!
    If then thy spirit look upon us now,
    Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death
    To see thy Antony making his peace,
    Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes,
    Most noble! In the presence of thy corse?
    Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds,
    Weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood,
    It would become me better than to close
    In terms of friendship with thine enemies.
    Pardon me, Julius! Here wast thou bay'd, brave hart,
    Here didst thou fall, and here thy hunters stand,
    Sign'd in thy spoil, and crimson'd in thy Lethe.
    O world, thou wast the forest to this hart,
    And this, indeed, O world, the heart of thee.
    How like a deer strucken by many princes
    Dost thou here lie!
  CASSIUS. Mark Antony-
  ANTONY. Pardon me, Caius Cassius.
    The enemies of Caesar shall say this:
    Then, in a friend, it is cold modesty.
  CASSIUS. I blame you not for praising Caesar so;
    But what compact mean you to have with us?
    Will you be prick'd in number of our friends,
    Or shall we on, and not depend on you?
  ANTONY. Therefore I took your hands, but was indeed
    Sway'd from the point by looking down on Caesar.
    Friends am I with you all and love you all,
    Upon this hope that you shall give me reasons
    Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous.
  BRUTUS. Or else were this a savage spectacle.
    Our reasons are so full of good regard
    That were you, Antony, the son of Caesar,
    You should be satisfied.
  ANTONY. That's all I seek;
    And am moreover suitor that I may
    Produce his body to the marketplace,
    And in the pulpit, as becomes a friend,
    Speak in the order of his funeral.
  BRUTUS. You shall, Mark Antony.
  CASSIUS. Brutus, a word with you.
    [Aside to Brutus.] You know not what you do. Do not consent
    That Antony speak in his funeral.
    Know you how much the people may be moved
    By that which he will utter?
  BRUTUS. By your pardon,
    I will myself into the pulpit first,
    And show the reason of our Caesar's death.
    What Antony shall speak, I will protest
    He speaks by leave and by permission,
    And that we are contented Caesar shall
    Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies.
    It shall advantage more than do us wrong.
  CASSIUS. I know not what may fall; I like it not.
  BRUTUS. Mark Antony, here, take you Caesar's body.
    You shall not in your funeral speech blame us,
    But speak all good you can devise of Caesar,
    And say you do't by our permission,
    Else shall you not have any hand at all
    About his funeral. And you shall speak
    In the same pulpit whereto I am going,
    After my speech is ended.
  ANTONY. Be it so,
    I do desire no more.
  BRUTUS. Prepare the body then, and follow us.
                                          Exeunt all but Antony.
  ANTONY. O, pardon me, thou bleeding piece of earth,
    That I am meek and gentle with these butchers!
    Thou art the ruins of the noblest man
    That ever lived in the tide of times.
    Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
    Over thy wounds now do I prophesy
    (Which like dumb mouths do ope their ruby lips
    To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue)
    A curse shall light upon the limbs of men;
    Domestic fury and fierce civil strife
    Shall cumber all the parts of Italy;
    Blood and destruction shall be so in use,
    And dreadful objects so familiar,
    That mothers shall but smile when they behold
    Their infants quarter'd with the hands of war;
    All pity choked with custom of fell deeds,
    And Caesar's spirit ranging for revenge,
    With Ate by his side come hot from hell,
    Shall in these confines with a monarch's voice
    Cry "Havoc!" and let slip the dogs of war,
    That this foul deed shall smell above the earth
    With carrion men, groaning for burial.

                        Enter a Servant.

    You serve Octavius Caesar, do you not?
  SERVANT. I do, Mark Antony.
  ANTONY. Caesar did write for him to come to Rome.
  SERVANT. He did receive his letters, and is coming,
    And bid me say to you by word of mouth-
    O Caesar!                                     Sees the body.
  ANTONY. Thy heart is big; get thee apart and weep.
    Passion, I see, is catching, for mine eyes,
    Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine,
    Began to water. Is thy master coming?
  SERVANT. He lies tonight within seven leagues of Rome.
  ANTONY. Post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced.
    Here is a mourning Rome, a dangerous Rome,
    No Rome of safety for Octavius yet;
    Hie hence, and tell him so. Yet stay awhile,
    Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse
    Into the marketplace. There shall I try,
    In my oration, how the people take
    The cruel issue of these bloody men,
    According to the which thou shalt discourse
    To young Octavius of the state of things.
    Lend me your hand.                Exeunt with Caesar's body.




SCENE II.
The Forum.

Enter Brutus and Cassius, and a throng of Citizens.

  CITIZENS. We will be satisfied! Let us be satisfied!
  BRUTUS. Then follow me and give me audience, friends.
    Cassius, go you into the other street
    And part the numbers.
    Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here;
    Those that will follow Cassius, go with him;
    And public reasons shall be rendered
    Of Caesar's death.
  FIRST CITIZEN. I will hear Brutus speak.
  SECOND CITIZEN. I will hear Cassius and compare their reasons,
    When severally we hear them rendered.
                               Exit Cassius, with some Citizens.
                                    Brutus goes into the pulpit.
  THIRD CITIZEN. The noble Brutus is ascended. Silence!
  BRUTUS. Be patient till the last.
    Romans, countrymen, and lovers! Hear me for my cause, and be
    silent, that you may hear. Believe me for mine honor, and have
    respect to mine honor, that you may believe. Censure me in your
    wisdom, and awake your senses, that you may the better judge. If
    there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of Caesar's, to
    him I say that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his. If
    then that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar, this is
    my answer: Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome
    more. Had you rather Caesar were living and die all slaves, than
    that Caesar were dead to live all freemen? As Caesar loved me, I
    weep for him; as he was fortunate, I rejoice at it; as he was
    valiant, I honor him; but as he was ambitious, I slew him. There
    is tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honor for his valor,
    and death for his ambition. Who is here so base that would be a
    bondman? If any, speak, for him have I offended. Who is here so
    rude that would not be a Roman? If any, speak, for him have I
    offended. Who is here so vile that will not love his country? If
    any, speak, for him have I offended. I pause for a reply.
  ALL. None, Brutus, none.
  BRUTUS. Then none have I offended. I have done no more to Caesar
    than you shall do to Brutus. The question of his death is
    enrolled in the Capitol, his glory not extenuated, wherein he was
    worthy, nor his offenses enforced, for which he suffered death.

              Enter Antony and others, with Caesar's body.

    Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though he had
    no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying, a
    place in the commonwealth, as which of you shall not? With this I
    depart- that, as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome, I
    have the same dagger for myself, when it shall please my country
    to need my death.
  ALL. Live, Brutus, live, live!
  FIRST CITIZEN. Bring him with triumph hom