, I am only old
    in judgment and understanding; and he that will caper with me for
    a thousand marks, let him lend me the money, and have at him. For
    the box of the ear that the Prince gave you- he gave it like a
    rude prince, and you took it like a sensible lord. I have check'd
    him for it; and the young lion repents- marry, not in ashes and
    sackcloth, but in new silk and old sack.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, God send the Prince a better companion!
  FALSTAFF. God send the companion a better prince! I cannot rid my
    hands of him.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, the King hath sever'd you. I hear you are
    going with Lord John of Lancaster against the Archbishop and the
    Earl of Northumberland.
  FALSTAFF. Yea; I thank your pretty sweet wit for it. But look you
    pray, all you that kiss my Lady Peace at home, that our armies
    join not in a hot day; for, by the Lord, I take but two shirts
    out with me, and I mean not to sweat extraordinarily. If it be a
    hot day, and I brandish anything but a bottle, I would I might
    never spit white again. There is not a dangerous action can peep
    out his head but I am thrust upon it. Well, I cannot last ever;
    but it was alway yet the trick of our English nation, if they
    have a good thing, to make it too common. If ye will needs say I
    am an old man, you should give me rest. I would to God my name
    were not so terrible to the enemy as it is. I were better to be
    eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with
    perpetual motion.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, be honest, be honest; and God bless your
    expedition!
  FALSTAFF. Will your lordship lend me a thousand pound to furnish me
    forth?
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Not a penny, not a penny; you are too impatient to
    bear crosses. Fare you well. Commend me to my cousin
    Westmoreland.
                                Exeunt CHIEF JUSTICE and SERVANT
  FALSTAFF. If I do, fillip me with a three-man beetle. A man can no
    more separate age and covetousness than 'a can part young limbs
    and lechery; but the gout galls the one, and the pox pinches the
    other; and so both the degrees prevent my curses. Boy!
  PAGE. Sir?
  FALSTAFF. What money is in my purse?
  PAGE. Seven groats and two pence.
  FALSTAFF. I can get no remedy against this consumption of the
    purse; borrowing only lingers and lingers it out, but the disease
    is incurable. Go bear this letter to my Lord of Lancaster; this
    to the Prince; this to the Earl of Westmoreland; and this to old
    Mistress Ursula, whom I have weekly sworn to marry since I
    perceiv'd the first white hair of my chin. About it; you know
    where to find me.  [Exit PAGE]  A pox of this gout! or, a gout of
    this pox! for the one or the other plays the rogue with my great
    toe. 'Tis no matter if I do halt; I have the wars for my colour,
    and my pension shall seem the more reasonable. A good wit will
    make use of anything. I will turn diseases to commodity.
 Exit




SCENE III.
York. The ARCHBISHOP'S palace

Enter the ARCHBISHOP, THOMAS MOWBRAY the EARL MARSHAL, LORD HASTINGS,
and LORD BARDOLPH

  ARCHBISHOP. Thus have you heard our cause and known our means;
    And, my most noble friends, I pray you all
    Speak plainly your opinions of our hopes-
    And first, Lord Marshal, what say you to it?
  MOWBRAY. I well allow the occasion of our amis;
    But gladly would be better satisfied
    How, in our means, we should advance ourselves
    To look with forehead bold and big enough
    Upon the power and puissance of the King.
  HASTINGS. Our present musters grow upon the file
    To five and twenty thousand men of choice;
    And our supplies live largely in the hope
    Of great Northumberland, whose bosom burns
    With an incensed fire of injuries.
  LORD BARDOLPH. The question then, Lord Hastings, standeth thus:
    Whether our present five and twenty thousand
    May hold up head without Northumberland?
  HASTINGS. With him, we may.
  LORD BARDOLPH. Yea, marry, there's the point;
    But if without him we be thought too feeble,
    My judgment is we should not step too far
    Till we had his assistance by the hand;
    For, in a theme so bloody-fac'd as this,
    Conjecture, expectation, and surmise
    Of aids incertain, should not be admitted.
  ARCHBISHOP. 'Tis very true, Lord Bardolph; for indeed
    It was young Hotspur's ca