 No, Caesar, we will answer on their charge.
    Make forth, the generals would have some words.
  OCTAVIUS. Stir not until the signal not until the signal.
  BRUTUS. Words before blows. Is it so, countrymen?
  OCTAVIUS. Not that we love words better, as you do.
  BRUTUS. Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius.
  ANTONY. In your bad strokes, Brutus, you give good words.
    Witness the hole you made in Caesar's heart,
    Crying "Long live! Hail, Caesar!"
  CASSIUS. Antony,
    The posture of your blows are yet unknown;
    But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees,
    And leave them honeyless.
  ANTONY. Not stingless too.
  BRUTUS. O, yes, and soundless too,
    For you have stol'n their buzzing, Antony,
    And very wisely threat before you sting.
  ANTONY. Villains! You did not so when your vile daggers
    Hack'd one another in the sides of Caesar.
    You show'd your teeth like apes, and fawn'd like hounds,
    And bow'd like bondmen, kissing Caesar's feet;
    Whilst damned Casca, like a cur, behind
    Strooke Caesar on the neck. O you flatterers!
  CASSIUS. Flatterers? Now, Brutus, thank yourself.
    This tongue had not offended so today,
    If Cassius might have ruled.
  OCTAVIUS. Come, come, the cause. If arguing make us sweat,
    The proof of it will turn to redder drops.
    Look,
    I draw a sword against conspirators;
    When think you that the sword goes up again?
    Never, till Caesar's three and thirty wounds
    Be well avenged, or till another Caesar
    Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
  BRUTUS. Caesar, thou canst not die by traitors' hands,
    Unless thou bring'st them with thee.
  OCTAVIUS. So I hope,
    I was not born to die on Brutus' sword.
  BRUTUS. O, if thou wert the noblest of thy strain,
    Young man, thou couldst not die more honorable.
  CASSIUS. A peevish school boy, worthless of such honor,
    Join'd with a masker and a reveler!
  ANTONY. Old Cassius still!
  OCTAVIUS. Come, Antony, away!
    Defiance, traitors, hurl we in your teeth.
    If you dare fight today, come to the field;
    If not, when you have stomachs.
                        Exeunt Octavius, Antony, and their Army.
  CASSIUS. Why, now, blow and, swell billow, and swim bark!
    The storm is up, and all is on the hazard.
  BRUTUS. Ho, Lucilius! Hark, a word with you.
  LUCILIUS. [Stands forth.] My lord?
                             Brutus and Lucilius converse apart.
  CASSIUS. Messala!
  MESSALA. [Stands forth.] What says my general?
  CASSIUS. Messala,
    This is my birthday, as this very day
    Was Cassius born. Give me thy hand, Messala.
    Be thou my witness that, against my will,
    As Pompey was, am I compell'd to set
    Upon one battle all our liberties.
    You know that I held Epicurus strong,
    And his opinion. Now I change my mind,
    And partly credit things that do presage.
    Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign
    Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd,
    Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands,
    Who to Philippi here consorted us.
    This morning are they fled away and gone,
    And in their steads do ravens, crows, and kites
    Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us,
    As we were sickly prey. Their shadows seem
    A canopy most fatal, under which
    Our army lies, ready to give up the ghost.
  MESSALA. Believe not so.
  CASSIUS. I but believe it partly,
    For I am fresh of spirit and resolved
    To meet all perils very constantly.
  BRUTUS. Even so, Lucilius.
  CASSIUS. Now, most noble Brutus,
    The gods today stand friendly that we may,
    Lovers in peace, lead on our days to age!
    But, since the affairs of men rest still incertain,
    Let's reason with the worst that may befall.
    If we do lose this battle, then is this
    The very last time we shall speak together.
    What are you then determined to do?
  BRUTUS. Even by the rule of that philosophy
    By which I did blame Cato for the death
    Which he did give himself- I know not how,
    But I do find it cowardly and vile,
    For fear of what might fall, so to prevent
    The time of life- arming myself with patience
    To stay the providence of some high powers
    That govern us below.
  CASSIUS. Then, if we lose this battle,
    You are contented to be led in triumph
    Thorough the streets of Rome?
  BRUTUS. No, Cassius, no. Think not, thou noble Roman,
    That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome;
    He bears too great a mind. But this same day
    Must end that work the ides of March begun.
    An