u offended, masters, that you are thus bound to
    your answer? This learned constable is too cunning to be
    understood. What's your offence?
  Bora. Sweet Prince, let me go no farther to mine answer. Do you
    hear me, and let this Count kill me. I have deceived even your
    very eyes. What your wisdoms could not discover, these shallow
    fools have brought to light, who in the night overheard me
    confessing to this man, how Don John your brother incensed me to
    slander the Lady Hero; how you were brought into the orchard and
    saw me court Margaret in Hero's garments; how you disgrac'd her
    when you should marry her. My villany they have upon record,
    which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my
    shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my master's false
    accusation; and briefly, I desire nothing but the reward of a
    villain.
  Pedro. Runs not this speech like iron through your blood?
  Claud. I have drunk poison whiles he utter'd it.
  Pedro. But did my brother set thee on to this?
  Bora. Yea, and paid me richly for the practice of it.
  Pedro. He is compos'd and fram'd of treachery,
    And fled he is upon this villany.
  Claud. Sweet Hero, now thy image doth appear
    In the rare semblance that I lov'd it first.
  Dog. Come, bring away the plaintiffs. By this time our sexton hath
    reformed Signior Leonato of the matter. And, masters, do not
    forget to specify, when time and place shall serve, that I am an
    ass.
  Verg. Here, here comes Master Signior Leonato, and the sexton too.

          Enter Leonato, his brother [Antonio], and the Sexton.

  Leon. Which is the villain? Let me see his eyes,
    That, when I note another man like him,
    I may avoid him. Which of these is he?
  Bora. If you would know your wronger, look on me.
  Leon. Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd
    Mine innocent child?
  Bora. Yea, even I alone.
  Leon. No, not so, villain! thou beliest thyself.
    Here stand a pair of honourable men--
    A third is fled--that had a hand in it.
    I thank you princes for my daughter's death.
    Record it with your high and worthy deeds.
    'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it.
  Claud. I know not how to pray your patience;
    Yet I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself;
    Impose me to what penance your invention
    Can lay upon my sin. Yet sinn'd I not
    But in mistaking.
  Pedro. By my soul, nor I!
    And yet, to satisfy this good old man,
    I would bend under any heavy weight
    That he'll enjoin me to.
  Leon. I cannot bid you bid my daughter live-
    That were impossible; but I pray you both,
    Possess the people in Messina here
    How innocent she died; and if your love
    Can labour aught in sad invention,
    Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb,
    And sing it to her bones--sing it to-night.
    To-morrow morning come you to my house,
    And since you could not be my son-in-law,
    Be yet my nephew. My brother hath a daughter,
    Almost the copy of my child that's dead,
    And she alone is heir to both of us.
    Give her the right you should have giv'n her cousin,
    And so dies my revenge.
  Claud. O noble sir!
    Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me.
    I do embrace your offer; and dispose
    For henceforth of poor Claudio.
  Leon. To-morrow then I will expect your coming;
    To-night I take my leave. This naughty man
    Shall fact to face be brought to Margaret,
    Who I believe was pack'd in all this wrong,
    Hir'd to it by your brother.
  Bora. No, by my soul, she was not;
    Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me;
    But always hath been just and virtuous
    In anything that I do know by her.
  Dog. Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and black, this
    plaintiff here, the offender, did call me ass. I beseech you let
    it be rememb'red in his punishment. And also the watch heard them
    talk of one Deformed. They say he wears a key in his ear, and a
    lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's name, the which he
    hath us'd so long and never paid that now men grow hard-hearted
    and will lend nothing for God's sake. Pray you examine him upon
    that point.
  Leon. I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
  Dog. Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth,
    and I praise God for you.
  Leon. There's for thy pains. [Gives money.]
  Dog. God save the foundation!
  Leon. Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
  Dog. I leave an arrant knave with your worship, which I beseech
    your worship to correct yourself, for the example of others.
    God keep your worship! I wish your worship well. God restore you
    to health! I humbly give you leave to depart; and if a merry
    meeting may be wish'd, God prohibit it! Come, neighbour.
                                   Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].
  Leon. Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell.
  Ant. Farewell, my lords. We look for you to-morrow.
  Pedro. We will not fall.
  Claud. To-night I