t some distress.
  GUIDERIUS. Would I could free't!
  ARVIRAGUS. Or I, whate'er it be,
    What pain it cost, what danger! Gods!
  BELARIUS. [Whispering] Hark, boys.
  IMOGEN. [Aside] Great men,
    That had a court no bigger than this cave,
    That did attend themselves, and had the virtue
    Which their own conscience seal'd them, laying by
    That nothing-gift of differing multitudes,
    Could not out-peer these twain. Pardon me, gods!
    I'd change my sex to be companion with them,
    Since Leonatus' false.
  BELARIUS. It shall be so.
    Boys, we'll go dress our hunt. Fair youth, come in.
    Discourse is heavy, fasting; when we have supp'd,
    We'll mannerly demand thee of thy story,
    So far as thou wilt speak it.
  GUIDERIUS. Pray draw near.
  ARVIRAGUS. The night to th' owl and morn to th' lark less welcome.
  IMOGEN. Thanks, sir.
  ARVIRAGUS. I pray draw near.                            Exeunt




SCENE VII.
Rome. A public place

Enter two ROMAN SENATORS and TRIBUNES

  FIRST SENATOR. This is the tenour of the Emperor's writ:
    That since the common men are now in action
    'Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians,
    And that the legions now in Gallia are
    Full weak to undertake our wars against
    The fall'n-off Britons, that we do incite
    The gentry to this business. He creates
    Lucius proconsul; and to you, the tribunes,
    For this immediate levy, he commands
    His absolute commission. Long live Caesar!
  TRIBUNE. Is Lucius general of the forces?
  SECOND SENATOR. Ay.
  TRIBUNE. Remaining now in Gallia?
  FIRST SENATOR. With those legions
    Which I have spoke of, whereunto your levy
    Must be supplyant. The words of your commission
    Will tie you to the numbers and the time
    Of their dispatch.
  TRIBUNE. We will discharge our duty.                    Exeunt




ACT IV. SCENE I.
Wales. Near the cave of BELARIUS

Enter CLOTEN alone

  CLOTEN. I am near to th' place where they should meet, if Pisanio
    have mapp'd it truly. How fit his garments serve me! Why should
    his mistress, who was made by him that made the tailor, not be
    fit too? The rather- saving reverence of the word- for 'tis said
    a woman's fitness comes by fits. Therein I must play the workman.
    I dare speak it to myself, for it is not vain-glory for a man and
    his glass to confer in his own chamber- I mean, the lines of my
    body are as well drawn as his; no less young, more strong, not
    beneath him in fortunes, beyond him in the advantage of the time,
    above him in birth, alike conversant in general services, and
    more remarkable in single oppositions. Yet this imperceiverant
    thing loves him in my despite. What mortality is! Posthumus, thy
    head, which now is growing upon thy shoulders, shall within this
    hour be off; thy mistress enforced; thy garments cut to pieces
    before her face; and all this done, spurn her home to her father,
    who may, haply, be a little angry for my so rough usage; but my
    mother, having power of his testiness, shall turn all into my
    commendations. My horse is tied up safe. Out, sword, and to a
    sore purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand. This is the very
    description of their meeting-place; and the fellow dares not
    deceive me.                                             Exit




SCENE II.
Wales. Before the cave of BELARIUS

Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, and IMOGEN

  BELARIUS. [To IMOGEN] You are not well. Remain here in the cave;
    We'll come to you after hunting.
  ARVIRAGUS. [To IMOGEN] Brother, stay here.
    Are we not brothers?
  IMOGEN. So man and man should be;
    But clay and clay differs in dignity,
    Whose dust is both alike. I am very sick.
  GUIDERIUS. Go you to hunting; I'll abide with him.
  IMOGEN. So sick I am not, yet I am not well;
    But not so citizen a wanton as
    To seem to die ere sick. So please you, leave me;
    Stick to your journal course. The breach of custom
    Is breach of all. I am ill, but your being by me
    Cannot amend me; society is no comfort
    To one not sociable. I am not very sick,
    Since I can reason of it. Pray you trust me here.
    I'll rob none but myself; and let me die,
    Stealing so poorly.
  GUIDERIUS. I love thee; I have spoke it.
    How much the quantity, the weight as much
    As I do love my father.
  BELARIUS. What? how? how?
  ARVIRAGUS. If it be sin to say so, sir, I yoke me
    In my good brother's fault. I know not why
    I love this youth, and I have heard you say
    Love's reason's without reason. The bier at door,
    And a demand who is't shall die, I'd say
    'My father, not this youth.'
  BELARIUS. [Aside] O noble strain!
    O worthiness of nature! breed of greatness!
    Cowards father cowards and base things sire base.
    Nature hath meal and bran, contempt and grace.
    I'm not their father; yet who this should be
    Doth miracle itself, lov'd before me.-
    'Tis the ninth hour o' th' morn.
  ARVIRAGUS. Brother, farewell.
  IMOGEN