USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT III. Scene I.
A public place.

Enter Mercutio, Benvolio, and Men.

  Ben. I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire.
    The day is hot, the Capulets abroad.
    And if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl,
    For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
  Mer. Thou art like one of these fellows that, when he enters the
    confines of a tavern, claps me his sword upon the table and says
    'God send me no need of thee!' and by the operation of the second
    cup draws him on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
  Ben. Am I like such a fellow?
  Mer. Come, come, thou art as hot a jack in thy mood as any in
    Italy; and as soon moved to be moody, and as soon moody to be
    moved.
  Ben. And what to?
  Mer. Nay, an there were two such, we should have none shortly, for
    one would kill the other. Thou! why, thou wilt quarrel with a man
    that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast.
    Thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no other
    reason but because thou hast hazel eyes. What eye but such an eye
    would spy out such a quarrel? Thy head is as full of quarrels as
    an egg is full of meat; and yet thy head hath been beaten as
    addle as an egg for quarrelling. Thou hast quarrell'd with a man
    for coughing in the street, because he hath wakened thy dog that
    hath lain asleep in the sun. Didst thou not fall out with a
    tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter, with another
    for tying his new shoes with an old riband? And yet thou wilt
    tutor me from quarrelling!
  Ben. An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man should buy
    the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
  Mer. The fee simple? O simple!

                       Enter Tybalt and others.

  Ben. By my head, here come the Capulets.
  Mer. By my heel, I care not.
  Tyb. Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
    Gentlemen, good den. A word with one of you.
  Mer. And but one word with one of us?
    Couple it with something; make it a word and a blow.
  Tyb. You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you will give me
    occasion.
  Mer. Could you not take some occasion without giving
  Tyb. Mercutio, thou consortest with Romeo.
  Mer. Consort? What, dost thou make us minstrels? An thou make
    minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but discords. Here's my
    fiddlestick; here's that shall make you dance. Zounds, consort!
  Ben. We talk here in the public haunt of men.
    Either withdraw unto some private place
    And reason coldly of your grievances,
    Or else depart. Here all eyes gaze on us.
  Mer. Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze.
    I will not budge for no man's pleasure,

                        Enter Romeo.

  Tyb. Well, peace be with you, sir. Here comes my man.
  Mer. But I'll be hang'd, sir, if he wear your livery.
    Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower!
    Your worship in that sense may call him man.
  Tyb. Romeo, the love I bear thee can afford
    No better term than this: thou art a villain.
  Rom. Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
    Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
    To such a greeting. Villain am I none.
    Therefore farewell. I see thou knowest me not.
  Tyb. Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
    That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
  Rom. I do protest I never injur'd thee,
    But love thee better than thou canst devise
    Till thou shalt know the reason of my love;
    And so good Capulet, which name I tender
    As dearly as mine own, be satisfied.
  Mer. O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
    Alla stoccata carries it away.                      [Draws.]
    Tybalt, you ratcatcher, will you walk?
  Tyb. What wouldst thou have with me?
  Mer. Good King of Cats, nothing but one of your nine lives. That I
    mean to make bold withal, and, as you shall use me hereafter,
    dry-beat the rest of the eight. Will you pluck your sword out of
    his pitcher by the ears? Make haste, lest mine be about your ears
    ere it be out.
  Tyb. I am for you.                                    [Draws.]
  Rom. Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
  Mer. Come, sir, your passado!
                                                   [They fight.]
  Rom. Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.
    Gentlemen, for shame! forbear this outrage!
    Tybalt, Mercutio, the Prince expressly hath
    Forbid this bandying in Verona streets.
    Hold, Tybalt! Good Mercutio!
         Tybalt under Romeo's arm thrusts Mercutio in, and flies
                                           [with his Followers].
  Mer. I am hurt.
    A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
    Is he gone and hath nothing?
  Ben. What, art thou hurt?
  Mer. Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch. Marry, 'tis enough.
    Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
                                                    [Exit Page.]
  Rom. Courage, man. The hurt cannot be much.
  Mer. No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door;
    but 'tis enough, 'twill serve. Ask for me to-morrow, and you
    shall find me a grave man. I