re me. O my soul's joy!
    If after every tempest come such calms,
    May the winds blow till they have waken'd death!
    And let the laboring bark climb hills of seas
    Olympus-high, and duck again as low
    As hell's from heaven! If it were now to die,
    'Twere now to be most happy; for I fear
    My soul hath her content so absolute
    That not another comfort like to this
    Succeeds in unknown fate.
  DESDEMONA.                  The heavens forbid
    But that our loves and comforts should increase,
    Even as our days do grow!
  OTHELLO.                    Amen to that, sweet powers!
    I cannot speak enough of this content;
    It stops me here; it is too much of joy.
    And this, and this, the greatest discords be          Kisses her.
    That e'er our hearts shall make!
  IAGO.                     [Aside.] O, you are well tuned now!
    But I'll set down the pegs that make this music,
    As honest as I am.
  OTHELLO.             Come, let us to the castle.
    News, friends: our wars are done, the Turks are drown'd.
    How does my old acquaintance of this isle?
    Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus;
    I have found great love amongst them. O my sweet,
    I prattle out of fashion, and I dote
    In mine own comforts. I prithee, good Iago,
    Go to the bay and disembark my coffers.
    Bring thou the master to the citadel;
    He is a good one, and his worthiness
    Does challenge much respect. Come, Desdemona,
    Once more well met at Cyprus.
                                    Exeunt all but Iago and Roderigo.
  IAGO. Do thou meet me presently at the harbor. Come hither. If thou
    be'st valiant- as they say base men being in love have then a
    nobility in their natures more than is native to them- list me.
    The lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard. First, I
    must tell thee this: Desdemona is directly in love with him.
  RODERIGO. With him? Why, 'tis not possible.
  IAGO. Lay thy finger thus, and let thy soul be instructed. Mark me
    with what violence she first loved the Moor, but for bragging and
    telling her fantastical lies. And will she love him still for
    prating? Let not thy discreet heart think it. Her eye must be
    fed; and what delight shall she have to look on the devil? When
    the blood is made dull with the act of sport, there should be,
    again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite,
    loveliness in favor, sympathy in years, manners, and beauties-
    all which the Moor is defective in. Now, for want of these
    required conveniences, her delicate tenderness will find itself
    abused, begin to heave the gorge, disrelish and abhor the Moor;
    very nature will instruct her in it and compel her to some second
    choice. Now sir, this granted- as it is a most pregnant and
    unforced position- who stands so eminently in the degree of this
    fortune as Cassio does? A knave very voluble; no further
    conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane
    seeming, for the better compass of his salt and most hidden loose
    affection? Why, none, why, none- a slipper and subtle knave, a
    finder out of occasions, that has an eye can stamp and
    counterfeit advantages, though true advantage never present
    itself- a devilish knave! Besides, the knave is handsome, young,
    and hath all those requisites in him that folly and green minds
    look after- a pestilent complete knave, and the woman hath found
    him already.
  RODERIGO. I cannot believe that in her; she's full of most blest
    condition.
  IAGO. Blest fig's-end! The wine she drinks is made of grapes. If
    she had been blest, she would never have loved the Moor. Blest
    pudding! Didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand?
    Didst not mark that?
  RODERIGO. Yes, that I did; but that was but courtesy.
  IAGO. Lechery, by this hand; an index and obscure prologue to the
    history of lust and foul thoughts. They met so near with their
    lips that their breaths embraced together. Villainous thoughts,
    Roderigo! When these mutualities so marshal the way, hard at hand
    comes the master and main exercise, the incorporate conclusion.
    Pish! But, sir, be you ruled by me. I have brought you from
    Venice. Watch you tonight; for the command, I'll lay't upon you.
    Cassio knows you not. I'll not be far from you. Do you find some
    occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking too loud, or
    tainting his discipline, or from what other course you please,
    which the time shall more favorably minister.
  RODERIGO. Well.
  IAGO. Sir, he is rash and very sudden in choler, and haply may
    strike at you. Provoke him, that he may; for even out of that
    will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny, whose qualification shall
    come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio.
    So shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means
    I shall then have to prefer them, and the impediment most
    profitably removed, without the which there were no expectation
    of our prosperity.
  RODERIGO. I will do this, if I can bring it to any opportunity.
  IAGO. I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel. I must
    fetch his necessaries ashore. Farewell.
  RODERIGO. Adieu.                                              Exit.
  IAGO. That Cassio loves her, I do well believe it;
    That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit.
    The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not,
    Is of a constant, loving, noble na