 I cannot smell.
  Marg. A maid, and stuff'd! There's goodly catching of cold.
  Beat. O, God help me! God help me! How long have you profess'd
    apprehension?
  Marg. Ever since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?
  Beat. It is not seen enough. You should wear it in your cap. By my
    troth, I am sick.
  Marg. Get you some of this distill'd carduus benedictus and lay it
    to your heart. It is the only thing for a qualm.
  Hero. There thou prick'st her with a thistle.
  Beat. Benedictus? why benedictus? You have some moral in this
    'benedictus.'
  Marg. Moral? No, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I meant
    plain holy thistle. You may think perchance that I think you are
    in love. Nay, by'r lady, I am not such a fool to think what I
    list; nor I list not to think what I can; nor indeed I cannot
    think, if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in
    love, or that you will be in love, or that you can be in love.
    Yet Benedick was such another, and now is he become a man. He
    swore he would never marry; and yet now in despite of his heart
    he eats his meat without grudging; and how you may be converted I
    know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.
  Beat. What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?
  Marg. Not a false gallop.

                         Enter Ursula.

  Urs. Madam, withdraw. The Prince, the Count, Signior Benedick, Don
    John, and all the gallants of the town are come to fetch you to
    church.
  Hero. Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
                                                       [Exeunt.]




Scene V.
The hall in Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato and the Constable [Dogberry] and the Headborough [verges].

  Leon. What would you with me, honest neighbour?
  Dog. Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you that decerns
    you nearly.
  Leon. Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
  Dog. Marry, this it is, sir.
  Verg. Yes, in truth it is, sir.
  Leon. What is it, my good friends?
  Dog. Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter--an old
    man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, I would
    desire they were; but, in faith, honest as the skin between his
    brows.
  Verg. Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living that is an
    old man and no honester than I.
  Dog. Comparisons are odorous. Palabras, neighbour Verges.
  Leon. Neighbours, you are tedious.
  Dog. It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the poor Duke's
    officers; but truly, for mine own part, if I were as tedious as a
    king, I could find in my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
  Leon. All thy tediousness on me, ah?
  Dog. Yea, in 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for I hear as
    good exclamation on your worship as of any man in the city; and
    though I be but a poor man, I am glad to hear it.
  Verg. And so am I.
  Leon. I would fain know what you have to say.
  Verg. Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your worship's
    presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in
    Messina.
  Dog. A good old man, sir; he will be talking. As they say, 'When
    the age is in, the wit is out.' God help us! it is a world to
    see! Well said, i' faith, neighbour Verges. Well, God's a good
    man. An two men ride of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest
    soul, i' faith, sir, by my troth he is, as ever broke bread; but
    God is to be worshipp'd; all men are not alike, alas, good
    neighbour!
  Leon. Indeed, neighbour, he comes too short of you.
  Dog. Gifts that God gives.
  Leon. I must leave you.
  Dog. One word, sir. Our watch, sir, have indeed comprehended two
    aspicious persons, and we would have them this morning examined
    before your worship.
  Leon. Take their examination yourself and bring it me. I am now in
    great haste, as it may appear unto you.
  Dog. It shall be suffigance.
  Leon. Drink some wine ere you go. Fare you well.

                       [Enter a Messenger.]

  Mess. My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to her
    husband.
  Leon. I'll wait upon them. I am ready.
                                 [Exeunt Leonato and Messenger.]
  Dog. Go, good partner, go get you to Francis Seacoal; bid him bring
    his pen and inkhorn to the jail. We are now to examination these
    men.
  Verg. And we must do it wisely.
  Dog. We will spare for no wit, I warrant you. Here's that shall
    drive some of them to a non-come. Only get the learned writer to
    set down our excommunication, and meet me at the jail.
                                                       [Exeunt.]




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT IV. Scene I.
A church.

Enter Don Pedro, [John the] Bastard, Leonato, Friar [Francis], Claudio,
Benedick, Hero, Beatrice, [and Attendants].

  Leon. Come, Friar Francis, be brief. Only to the plain form of
    marriage, and you shall recount their particular duties
    afterwards.
  Friar. You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady?
  Claud. No.
  Leon. To be married to her. Friar, you come to marry her.
  Friar. Lady, you come hither to be married to this count?
  Hero. I do.
  Friar. If either of you know any inward impediment why you should
    not be conjoined, I charge you on your souls to utter it.
  Claud. Know you any, Hero?
  Hero. None, my lord.
  Friar. Know you any, Count?
  Leon. I dare make his answer--none.
  Claud. O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do, not
    knowing what they do!
  Bene. How now? interjections? Why then, some be of laughing, as,
    ah, ha, he!
  Claud. Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave:
    Will you with free and unconstrained soul
    Give me this maid your daughter?
  Leon. As freely, son, as God did give her me.
  Claud. And what have I to give you back whose worth
    May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
  Pedro. Nothing, unless you render her again.
  Claud. Sweet Prince, you learn me noble thankfulness.
    There, Leonato, take her back again.
    Give not this rotten orange to your friend.
    She's but the sign and semblance of her honour.
    Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
    O, what authority and show of truth
    Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
    Comes not that blood as modest evidence
    To witness simple virtue, Would you not swear,
    All you that see her, that she were a maid
    By these exterior shows? But she is none:
    She knows the heat of a luxurious bed;
    Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty.
  Leon. What do you mean, my lord?
  Claud. Not to be married,
    Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton.
  Leon. Dear my lord, if you, in your own proof,
    Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth
    And made defeat of her virginity--
  Claud. I know what you would say. If I have known her,
    You will say she did embrace me as a husband,
    And so extenuate the forehand sin.
    No, Leonato,
    I never tempted her with word too large,
    But, as a brother to his sister, show'd
    Bashful sincerity and comely love.
  Hero. And seem'd I ever otherwise to you?
  Claud. Out on the seeming! I will write against it.
    You seem to me as Dian in her orb,
    As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown;
    But you are more intemperate in your blood
    Than Venus, or those pamp'red animals
    That rage in savage sensuality.
  Hero. Is my lord well that he doth speak so wide?
  Leon. Sweet Prince, why speak not you?
  Pedro. What should I speak?
    I stand dishonour'd that have gone about
    To link my dear friend to a common stale.
  Leon. Are these things spoken, or do I but dream?
  John. Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true.
  Bene. This looks not like a nuptial.
  Hero. 'True!' O God!
  Claud. Leonato, stand I here?
    Is this the Prince, Is this the Prince's brother?
    Is this face Hero's? Are our eyes our own?
  Leon. All this is so; but what of this, my lord?
  Claud. Let me but move one question to your daughter,
    And by that fatherly and kindly power
    That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
  Leon. I charge thee do so, as thou art my child.
  Hero. O, God defend me! How am I beset!
    What kind of catechising call you this?
  Claud. To make you answer truly to your name.
  Hero. Is it not Hero? Who can blot that name
    With any just reproach?
  Claud. Marry, that can Hero!
    Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue.
    What man was he talk'd with you yesternight,
    Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
    Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
  Hero. I talk'd with no man at that hour, my lord.
  Pedro. Why, then are you no maiden. Leonato,
    I am sorry you must hear. Upon my honour,
    Myself, my brother, and this grieved Count
    Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night
    Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window,
    Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain,
    Confess'd the vile encounters they have had
    A thousand times in secret.
  John. Fie, fie! they are not to be nam'd, my lord--
    Not to be spoke of;
    There is not chastity, enough in language
    Without offence to utter them. Thus, pretty lady,
    I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
  Claud. O Hero! what a Hero hadst thou been
    If half thy outward graces had been plac'd
    About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart!
    But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! Farewell,
    Thou pure impiety and impious purity!
    For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love,
    And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang,
    To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm,
    And never shall it more be gracious.
  Leon. Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
                                                  [Hero swoons.]
  Beat. Why, how now, cousin? Wherefore sink you down?
  John. Come let us go. These things, come thus to light,
    Smother her spirits up.
                      [Exeunt Don Pedro, Don Juan, and Claudio.]
  Bene. How doth the lady?
  Beat. Dead, I think. Help, uncle!
    Hero! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar!
  Leon. O Fate, take not away thy heavy hand!
    Death is the fairest cover for her shame
    That may be wish'd for.
  Beat. How now, cousin Hero?
  Friar. Have comfort, lady.
  Leon. Dost thou look up?
  Friar. Yea, wherefore should she not?
  Leon. Wherefore? Why, doth not every earthly thing
    Cry shame upon her? Could she here deny
    The story that is printed in her blood?
    Do not live, Hero; do not ope thine eyes;
    For, did I think thou wouldst not quickly die,
    Thought I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames,
    Myself would on the rearward of reproaches
    Strike at thy life. Griev'd I, I had but one?
    Child I for that at frugal nature's frame?
    O, one too much by thee! Why had I one?
    Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
    Why had I not with charitable hand
    Took up a beggar's issue at my gates,
    Who smirched thus and mir'd with infamy,
    I might have said, 'No part of it is mine;
    This shame derives itself from unknown loins'?
    But mine, and mine I lov'd, and mine I prais'd,
    And mine that I was proud on--mine so much
    That I myself was to myself not mine,
    Valuing of her--why, she, O, she is fall'n
    Into a pit of ink, that the wide sea
    Hath drops too few to wash her clean again,
    And salt too little which may season give
    To her foul tainted flesh!
  Bene. Sir, sir, be patient.
    For my part, I am so attir'd in wonder,
    I know not what to say.
  Bea