m!
    Give up your staff, sir, and the King his realm.
  GLOUCESTER. My staff! Here, noble Henry, is my staff.
    As willingly do I the same resign
    As ere thy father Henry made it mine;
    And even as willingly at thy feet I leave it
    As others would ambitiously receive it.
    Farewell, good King; when I am dead and gone,
    May honourable peace attend thy throne!                 Exit
  QUEEN. Why, now is Henry King, and Margaret Queen,
    And Humphrey Duke of Gloucester scarce himself,
    That bears so shrewd a maim: two pulls at once-
    His lady banish'd and a limb lopp'd off.
    This staff of honour raught, there let it stand
    Where it best fits to be, in Henry's hand.
  SUFFOLK. Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays;
    Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.
  YORK. Lords, let him go. Please it your Majesty,
    This is the day appointed for the combat;
    And ready are the appellant and defendant,
    The armourer and his man, to enter the lists,
    So please your Highness to behold the fight.
  QUEEN. Ay, good my lord; for purposely therefore
    Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.
  KING HENRY. A God's name, see the lists and all things fit;
    Here let them end it, and God defend the right!
  YORK. I never saw a fellow worse bested,
    Or more afraid to fight, than is the appellant,
    The servant of his armourer, my lords.

        Enter at one door, HORNER, the Armourer, and his
         NEIGHBOURS, drinking to him so much that he is
        drunk; and he enters with a drum before him and
       his staff with a sand-bag fastened to it; and at the
        other door PETER, his man, with a drum and sandbag,
                  and PRENTICES drinking to him

  FIRST NEIGHBOUR. Here, neighbour Horner, I drink to you in a cup of
    sack; and fear not, neighbour, you shall do well enough.
  SECOND NEIGHBOUR. And here, neighbour, here's a cup of charneco.
  THIRD NEIGHBOUR. And here's a pot of good double beer, neigh