es; they are not China dishes, but very good dishes.
  ESCALUS. Go to, go to; no matter for the dish, sir.
  POMPEY. No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in the
    right; but to the point. As I say, this Mistress Elbow, being, as
    I say, with child, and being great-bellied, and longing, as I
    said, for prunes; and having but two in the dish, as I said,
    Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten the rest, as I
    said, and, as I say, paying for them very honestly; for, as you
    know, Master Froth, I could not give you three pence again-
  FROTH. No, indeed.
  POMPEY. Very well; you being then, if you be rememb'red, cracking
    the stones of the foresaid prunes-
  FROTH. Ay, so I did indeed.
  POMPEY. Why, very well; I telling you then, if you be rememb'red,
    that such a one and such a one were past cure of the thing you
    wot of, unless they kept very good diet, as I told you-
  FROTH. All this is true.
  POMPEY. Why, very well then-
  ESCALUS. Come, you are a tedious fool. To the purpose: what was
    done to Elbow's wife that he hath cause to complain of? Come me
    to what was done to her.
  POMPEY. Sir, your honour cannot come to that yet.
  ESCALUS. No, sir, nor I mean it not.
  POMPEY. Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour's leave. And,
    I beseech you, look into Master Froth here, sir, a man of
    fourscore pound a year; whose father died at Hallowmas- was't not
    at Hallowmas, Master Froth?
  FROTH. All-hallond eve.
  POMPEY. Why, very well; I hope here be truths. He, sir, sitting, as
    I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas in the Bunch of Grapes,
    where, indeed, you have a delight to sit, have you not?
  FROTH. I have so; because it is an open room, and good for winter.
  POMPEY. Why, very well then; I hope here be truths.
  ANGELO. This will last out a night in Russia,
    When nights are longest there; I'll take my leave,
    And leave you to the hearing of the cause,
    Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all.
  ESCALUS. I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship.
    [Exit ANGELO] Now, sir, come on; what was done to Elbow's wife,
    once more?
  POMPEY. Once?- sir. There was nothing done to her once.
  ELBOW. I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.
  POMPEY. I beseech your honour, ask me.
  ESCALUS. Well, sir, what did this gentleman to her?
  POMPEY. I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face. Good
    Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for a good purpose. Doth
    your honour mark his face?
  ESCALUS. Ay, sir, very well.
  POMPEY. Nay, I beseech you, mark it well.
  ESCALUS. Well, I do so.
  POMPEY. Doth your honour see any harm in his face?
  ESCALUS. Why, no.
  POMPEY. I'll be suppos'd upon a book his face is the worst thing
    about him. Good then; if his face be the worst thing about him,
    how could Master Froth do the constable's wife any harm? I would
    know that of your honour.
  ESCALUS. He's in the right, constable; what say you to it?
  ELBOW. First, an it like you, the house is a respected house; next,
    this is a respected fellow; and his mistress is a respected
    woman.
  POMPEY. By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respected person than
    any of us all.
  ELBOW. Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicket varlet; the time is
    yet to come that she was ever respected with man, woman, or
    child.
  POMPEY. Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.
  ESCALUS. Which is the wiser here, Justice or Iniquity? Is this
    true?
  ELBOW. O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wicked Hannibal! I
    respected with her before I was married to her! If ever I was
    respected with her, or she with me, let not your worship think me
    the poor Duke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or
    I'll have mine action of batt'ry on thee.
  ESCALUS. If he took you a box o' th' ear, you might have your
    action of slander too.
  ELBOW. Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't your
    worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?
  ESCALUS. Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him that
    thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him continue in his
    courses till thou know'st what they are.
  ELBOW. Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou wicked
    varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art to continue now,
    thou varlet; thou art to continue.
  ESCALUS. Where were you born, friend?
  FROTH. Here in Vienna, sir.
  ESCALUS. Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
  FROTH. Yes, an't please you, sir.
  ESCALUS. So. What trade are you of, sir?
  POMPEY. A tapster, a poor widow's tapster.
  ESCALUS. Your mistress' name?
  POMPEY. Mistress Overdone.
  ESCALUS. Hath she had any more than one husband?
  POMPEY. Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.
  ESCALUS. Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master Froth, I
    would not have you acquainted with tapsters: they will draw you,
    Master Froth, and you will hang them. Get you gone, and let me
    hear no more of you.
  FROTH. I thank your worship. For mine own part, I never come into
    any room in a taphouse but I am drawn in.
  ESCALUS. Well, no more of it, Master Froth; farewell. [Exit FROTH]
    Come you hither to me, Master Tapster; what's your name, Master
    Tapster?
  POMPEY. Pompey.
  ESCALUS. What else?
  POMPEY. Bum, sir.
  ESCALUS. Troth, and your bum is the greatest thing about you; so
    that, in the beastliest sense, you are Pompey the Great. Pompey,
    you are partly a bawd, Pompey, howsoever you colour it in being a
    tapster. Are you not? Come, tell me true; it shall be the better
    for you.
  POMPEY. Truly, sir, I am a poor fellow that would live.
  ESCALUS. How would you live, Pompey- by being a bawd? What do you
    think of the trade, Pompey? Is it a lawful trade?
  POMPEY. If the law would allow it, sir.
  ESCALUS. But the law will not allow it, Pompey; nor it shall not be
    allowed in Vienna.
  POMPEY. Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the youth of
    the city?
  ESCALUS. No, Pompey.
  POMPEY. Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then. If
    your worship will take order for the drabs and the knaves, you
    need not to fear the bawds.
  ESCALUS. There is pretty orders beginning, I can tell you: but it
    is but heading and hanging.
  POMPEY. If you head and hang a