and your eyes advance,
    After your thoughts, straight back again to France.     Exit




SCENE I.
France.  The English camp

Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER

  GOWER. Nay, that's right; but why wear you your leek to-day? Saint
    Davy's day is past.
  FLUELLEN. There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in all
    things. I will tell you, ass my friend, Captain Gower: the
    rascally, scald, beggarly, lousy, pragging knave, Pistol- which
    you and yourself and all the world know to be no petter than a
    fellow, look you now, of no merits- he is come to me, and prings
    me pread and salt yesterday, look you, and bid me eat my leek; it
    was in a place where I could not breed no contendon with him; but
    I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see him once
    again, and then I will tell him a little piece of my desires.

                          Enter PISTOL

  GOWER. Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey-cock.
  FLUELLEN. 'Tis no matter for his swellings nor his turkey-cocks.
    God pless you, Aunchient Pistol! you scurvy, lousy knave, God
    pless you!
  PISTOL. Ha! art thou bedlam? Dost thou thirst, base Troyan,
    To have me fold up Parca's fatal web?
    Hence! I am qualmish at the smell of leek.
  FLUELLEN. I peseech you heartily, scurvy, lousy knave, at my
    desires, and my requests, and my petitions, to eat, look you,
    this leek; because, look you, you do not love it, nor your
    affections, and your appetites, and your digestions, does not
    agree with it, I would desire you to eat it.
  PISTOL. Not for Cadwallader and all his goats.
  FLUELLEN. There is one goat for you.  [Strikes him]  Will you be so
    good, scald knave, as eat it?
  PISTOL. Base Troyan, thou shalt die.
  FLUELLEN. You say very true, scald knave- when God's will is. I
    will desire you to live in the meantime, and eat your victuals;
    come, there is sauce for it.  [Striking him again]  You call'd me
    yesterday mountain-squire; but I will make you to-day a squire of
    low degree. I pray you fall to; if you can mock a leek, you can
    eat a leek.
  GOWER. Enough, Captain, you have astonish'd him.
  FLUELLEN. I say I will make him eat some part of my leek, or I will
    peat his pate four days. Bite, I pray you, it is good for your
    green wound and your ploody coxcomb.
  PISTOL. Must I bite?
  FLUELLEN. Yes, certainly, and out of doubt, and out of question
    too, and ambiguides.
  PISTOL. By this leek, I will most horribly revenge- I eat and eat,
    I swear-
  FLUELLEN. Eat, I pray you; will you have some more sauce to your
    leek? There is not enough leek to swear by.
  PISTOL. Quiet thy cudgel: thou dost see I eat.
  FLUELLEN. Much good do you, scald knave, heartily. Nay, pray you
    throw none away; the skin is good for your broken coxcomb. When
    you take occasions to see leeks hereafter, I pray you mock at
    'em; that is all.
  PISTOL. Good.
  FLUELLEN. Ay, leeks is good. Hold you, there is a groat to heal
    your pate.
  PISTOL. Me a groat!
  FLUELLEN. Yes, verily and in truth, you shall take it; or I have
    another leek in my pocket which you shall eat.
  PISTOL. I take thy groat in earnest of revenge.
  FLUELLEN. If I owe you anything I will pay you in cudgels; you
    shall be a woodmonger, and buy nothing of me but cudgels. God bye
    you, and keep you, and heal your pate.
 Exit
  PISTOL. All hell shall stir for this.
  GOWER. Go, go: you are a couterfeit cowardly knave. Will you mock
    at an ancient tradition, begun upon an honourable respect, and
    worn as a memorable trophy of predeceased valour, and dare not
    avouch in your deeds any of your words? I have seen you gleeking
    and galling at this gentleman twice or thrice. You thought,
    because he could not speak English in the native garb, he could
    not therefore handle an English cudgel; you find it otherwise,
    and henceforth let a Welsh correction teach you a good English
    condition. Fare ye well.                                Exit
  PISTOL. Doth Fortune play the huswife with me now?
    News have I that my Nell is dead i' th' spital
    Of malady of France;
    And there my rendezvous is quite cut off.
    Old I do wax; and from my weary limbs
    Honour is cudgell'd. Well, bawd I'll turn,
    And something lean to cutpurse of quick hand.
    To England will I steal, and there I'll steal;
    And patches will I get unto these cudgell'd scars,
    And swear I got them in the Gallia wars.                Exit




SCENE II.
France. The FRENCH KING'S palace

Enter at one door, KING HENRY, EXETER, BEDFORD, GLOUCESTER, WARWICK,
WESTMORELAND, and other LORDS; at another, the FRENCH KING, QUEEN ISABEL,
the PRINCESS KATHERINE, ALICE, and other LADIES; the DUKE OF BURGUNDY,
and his train

  KING HENRY. Peace to this meeting, wherefore we are met!
    Unto our brother France, and to our sister,
    Health and fair time of day; joy and good wishes
    To our most fair and princely cousin Katherine.
    And, as a branch and member of this royalty,
    By whom this great assembly is contriv'd,
    We do salute you, Duke of Burgundy.
    And, princes French, and peers, health to you all!
  FRENCH KING. Right joyous are we to behold your face,
    Most worthy brother England; fairly met!
    So are you, princes English, every one.
  QUEEN ISABEL. So happy be the issue, brother England,
    Of this good day and of this gracious meeting
    As we are now glad to behold your eyes-
    Your eyes, which hitherto have home in them,
    Against the French that met them in their bent,
    The fatal balls of murdering basilisks;
    The venom of such looks, we fairly hope,
    Have lost their quality; and that this day
    Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
  KING HENRY. To cry amen to that, thus we appear.
  QUEEN ISABEL. You English princes an, I do salute you.
  BURGUNDY. My duty to you both, on equal love,
    Great Kings of France and England! That I have labour'd
    With all my wits, my pains, and strong endeavours,
    To bring your most imperial Majesties
    Unto this bar and royal interview,
    Your mightiness on both parts best can witness.
    Since then my office hath so far prevail'd
    That face to face and royal eye to eye
    You have congreeted, let it not disgrace me
    If I demand, before this royal view,
    What rub or what impediment there is
    Why that the naked, poor, and mangled Peace,
    Dear nurse of arts, plenties, and joyful births,
    Should not in this best garden of the world,
    Our fertile France, put up her lovely visage