I durst attempt it against any
    lady in the world.
  POSTHUMUS. You are a great deal abus'd in too bold a persuasion,
    and I doubt not you sustain what y'are worthy of by your attempt.
  IACHIMO. What's that?
  POSTHUMUS. A repulse; though your attempt, as you call it, deserve
    more- a punishment too.
  PHILARIO. Gentlemen, enough of this. It came in too suddenly; let
    it die as it was born, and I pray you be better acquainted.
  IACHIMO. Would I had put my estate and my neighbour's on th'
    approbation of what I have spoke!
  POSTHUMUS. What lady would you choose to assail?
  IACHIMO. Yours, whom in constancy you think stands so safe. I will
    lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring that, commend me to the
    court where your lady is, with no more advantage than the
    opportunity of a second conference, and I will bring from thence
    that honour of hers which you imagine so reserv'd.
  POSTHUMUS. I will wage against your gold, gold to it. My ring I
    hold dear as my finger; 'tis part of it.
  IACHIMO. You are a friend, and therein the wiser. If you buy
    ladies' flesh at a million a dram, you cannot preserve it from
    tainting. But I see you have some religion in you, that you fear.
  POSTHUMUS. This is but a custom in your tongue; you bear a graver
    purpose, I hope.
  IACHIMO. I am the master of my speeches, and would undergo what's
    spoken, I swear.
  POSTHUMUS. Will you? I Shall but lend my diamond till your return.
    Let there be covenants drawn between's. My mistress exceeds in
    goodness the hugeness of your unworthy thinking. I dare you to
    this match: here's my ring.
  PHILARIO. I will have it no lay.
  IACHIMO. By the gods, it is one. If I bring you no sufficient
    testimony that I have enjoy'd the dearest bodily part of your
    mistress, my ten thousand ducats are yours; so is your diamond
    too. If I come off, and leave her in such honour as you have
    trust in, she your jewel, this your jewel, and my gold are yours-
    provided I have your commendation for my more free entertainment.
  POSTHUMUS. I embrace these conditions; let us have articles betwixt
    us. Only, thus far you shall answer: if you make your voyage upon
    her, and give me directly to understand you have prevail'd, I am
    no further your enemy- she is not worth our debate; if she remain
    unseduc'd, you not making it appear otherwise, for your ill
    opinion and th' assault you have made to her chastity you shall
    answer me with your sword.
  IACHIMO. Your hand- a covenant! We will have these things set down
    by lawful counsel, and straight away for Britain, lest the
    bargain should catch cold and starve. I will fetch my gold and
    have our two wagers recorded.
  POSTHUMUS. Agreed.                Exeunt POSTHUMUS and IACHIMO
  FRENCHMAN. Will this hold, think you?
  PHILARIO. Signior Iachimo will not from it. Pray let us follow 'em.
                                                          Exeunt




SCENE V.
Britain. CYMBELINE'S palace

Enter QUEEN, LADIES, and CORNELIUS

  QUEEN. Whiles yet the dew's on ground, gather those flowers;
    Make haste; who has the note of them?
  LADY. I, madam.
  QUEEN. Dispatch.                                 Exeunt LADIES
    Now, Master Doctor, have you brought those drugs?
  CORNELIUS. Pleaseth your Highness, ay. Here they are, madam.
                                              [Presenting a box]
    But I beseech your Grace, without offence-
    My conscience bids me ask- wherefore you have
    Commanded of me these most poisonous compounds
    Which are the movers of a languishing death,
    But, though slow, deadly?
  QUEEN. I wonder, Doctor,
    Thou ask'st me such a question. Have I not been
    Thy pupil long? Hast thou not learn'd me how
    To make perfumes? distil? preserve? yea, so
    That our great king himself doth woo me oft
    For my confections? Having thus far proceeded-
    Unless thou think'st me devilish- is't not meet
    That I did amplify my judgment in
    Other conclusions? I will try the forces
    Of these thy compounds on such creatures as
    We count not worth the hanging- but none human-
    To try the vigour of them, and apply
    Allayments to their act, and by them gather
    Their several virtues and effects.
  CORNELIUS. Your Highness
    Shall from this practice but make hard your heart;
    Besides, the seeing these effects will be
    Both noisome and infectious.
  QUEEN. O, content thee.

                        Enter PISANIO

    [Aside] Here comes a flattering rascal; upon him
    Will I first work. He's for his master,
    An enemy to my son.- How now, Pisanio!
    Doctor, your service for this time is ended;
    Take your own way.
  CORNELIUS. [Aside] I do suspect you, madam;
    But you shall do no harm.
  QUEEN. [To PISANIO] Hark thee, a word.
  CORNELIUS. [Aside] I do not like her. She doth think she has
    Strange ling'ring poisons. I do know her spirit,
    And will not trust one of her malice with
    A drug of such damn'd nature. Those she has
    Will stupefy and dull the sense awhile,
    Which first perchance she'll prove on cats and dogs,
    Then afterward up higher; but there is
    No danger in what show of death it makes,
    More than the locking up the spirits a time,
    To be more fresh, reviving. She is fool'd
    With a most false effect; and I the truer
    So to be false with her.
  QUEEN. No further service, Doctor,
    Until I send for thee.
  CORNELIUS. I humbly take my leave.                        Exit
  QUEEN. Weeps she still, say'st thou? Dost thou think in time
    She will not quench, and let instructions enter
    Where folly now possesses? Do thou work.
    When thou shalt bring me word she loves my son,
    I'll tell thee on the instant thou art then
    As great as is thy master; greater, for
    His fortunes all lie speechless, and his name
    Is at last gasp. Return he cannot, nor
    Continue where he is. To shift his being
    Is to exchange one misery with another,
    And every day that comes comes comes to
    A day's work in him. What shalt thou expect
    To be depender on a thing that leans,
    Who cannot be new built, nor has no friends
    So much as but to prop him?
                  [The QUEEN drops the box. PISANIO takes it up]
    Thou tak'st up
    Thou know'st not what; but take it for thy labour.
    It is a thing I made, which hath the King
    Five times redeem'd from death. I do not know
    What is more cordial. Nay, I prithee take it;
    It is an earnest of a further good
    That I mean to thee. Tell thy mistress how
    The case stands with her; do't as from thyself.
    Think what a chance thou changest on; but think
    Thou hast thy mistress still; to boot, my son,
    Who shall take notice of thee. I'll move the King
    To any shape of thy preferment, such
    As thou'lt desire; and then my