woman, one woman shall not come in my grace. Rich she shall
    be, that's certain; wise, or I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never
    cheapen her; fair, or I'll never look on her; mild, or come not
    near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good discourse, an
    excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what colour it
    please God. Ha, the Prince and Monsieur Love! I will hide me in
    the arbour.                                         [Hides.]

              Enter Don Pedro, Leonato, Claudio.
                      Music [within].

  Pedro. Come, shall we hear this music?
  Claud. Yea, my good lord. How still the evening is,
    As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony!
  Pedro. See you where Benedick hath hid himself?
  Claud. O, very well, my lord. The music ended,
    We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth.

                   Enter Balthasar with Music.

  Pedro. Come, Balthasar, we'll hear that song again.
  Balth. O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice
    To slander music any more than once.
  Pedro. It is the witness still of excellency
    To put a strange face on his own perfection.
    I pray thee sing, and let me woo no more.
  Balth. Because you talk of wooing, I will sing,
    Since many a wooer doth commence his suit
    To her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes,
    Yet will he swear he loves.
  Pedro. Nay, pray thee come;
    Or if thou wilt hold longer argument,
    Do it in notes.
  Balth. Note this before my notes:
    There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.
  Pedro. Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks!
    Note notes, forsooth, and nothing!                  [Music.]
  Bene. [aside] Now divine air! Now is his soul ravish'd! Is it not
    strange that sheep's guts should hale souls out of men's bodies?
    Well, a horn for my money, when all's done.
                                              [Balthasar sings.]
                      The Song.

        Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more!
          Men were deceivers ever,
        One foot in sea, and one on shore;
          To one thing constant never.
            Then sigh not so,
            But let them go,
          And be you blithe and bonny,
        Converting all your sounds of woe
          Into Hey nonny, nonny.

        Sing no more ditties, sing no moe,
          Of dumps so dull and heavy!
        The fraud of men was ever so,
          Since summer first was leavy.
            Then sigh not so, &c.

  Pedro. By my troth, a good song.
  Balth. And an ill singer, my lord.
  Pedro. Ha, no, no, faith! Thou sing'st well enough for a shift.
  Bene. [aside] An he had been a dog that should have howl'd thus,
    they would have hang'd him; and I pray God his bad voice bode no
    mischief. I had as live have heard the night raven, come what
    plague could have come after it.
  Pedro. Yea, marry. Dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee get us
    some excellent music; for to-morrow night we would have it at the
    Lady Hero's chamber window.
  Balth. The best I can, my lord.
  Pedro. Do so. Farewell.
                                Exit Balthasar [with Musicians].
    Come hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of to-day? that
    your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?
  Claud. O, ay!-[Aside to Pedro] Stalk on, stalk on; the fowl sits.
    --I did never think that lady would have loved any man.
  Leon. No, nor I neither; but most wonderful that she should so dote
    on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behaviours
    seem'd ever to abhor.
  Bene. [aside] Is't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?
  Leon. By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think of it, but
    that she loves him with an enraged affection. It is past the
    infinite of thought.
  Pedro. May be she doth but counterfeit.
  Claud. Faith, like enough.
  Leon. O God, counterfeit? There was never counterfeit of passion
    came so near the life of passion as she discovers it.
  Pedro. Why, what effects of passion shows she?
  Claud. [aside] Bait the hook well! This fish will bite.
  Leon. What effects, my lord? She will sit you--you heard my
    daughter tell you how.
  Claud. She did indeed.
  Pedro. How, how, I pray you? You amaze me. I would have thought her
    spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.
  Leon. I would have sworn it had, my lord--especially against
    Benedick.
  Bene. [aside] I should think this a gull but that the white-bearded
    fellow speaks it. Knavery cannot, sure, hide himself in such
    reverence.
  Claud. [aside] He hath ta'en th' infection. Hold it up.
  Pedro. Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
  Leon. No, and swears she never will. That's her torment.
  Claud. 'Tis true indeed. So your daughter says. 'Shall I,' says
    she, 'that have so oft encount'red him with scorn, write to him
    that I love him?'"
  Leon. This says she now when she is beginning to write to him; for
    she'll be up twenty times a night, and there will she sit in her
    smock till she have writ a sheet of paper. My daughter tells us
    all.
  Claud. Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a pretty jest
    your daughter told us of.
  Leon. O, when she had writ it, and was reading it over, she found
    'Benedick' and 'Beatrice' between the sheet?
  Claud. That.
  Leon. O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence, rail'd at
    herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she
    knew would flout her. 'I measure him,' says she, 'by my own
    spirit; for I should flout him if he writ to me. Yea, though I
    love him, I should.'
  Claud. Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beats her
    heart, tears her hair, prays, curses--'O sweet Benedick! God give
    me patience!'
  Leon. She doth indeed; my daughter says so. And the ecstasy hath so
    much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeard she will
    do a desperate outrage to herself. It is very true.
  Pedro. It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she
    will not discover it.
  Claud. To what end? He would make but a sport of it and torment the
    poor lady worse.
  Pedro. An he should, it were an alms to hang him! She's an
    excellent sweet lady, and (out of all suspicion) she is virtuous.
  Claud. And she is exceeding wise.
  Pedro. In everything but in loving Benedick.
  Leon. O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body,
    we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory. I am sorry
    for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
  Pedro. I would she had bestowed this dotage on me. I would have
    daff'd all other respects and made her half myself. I pray you
    tell Benedick of it and hear what 'a will say.
  Leon. Were it good, think you?
  Claud. Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she will die
    if he love her not, and she will die ere she make her love known,
    and she will die, if he woo her, rather than she will bate one
    breath of her accustomed crossness.
  Pedro. She doth well. If she should make tender of her love, 'tis
    very possible he'll scorn it; for the man (as you know all) hath
    a contemptible spirit.
  Claud. He is a very proper man.
  Pedro. He hath indeed a good outward happiness.
  Claud. Before God! and in my mind, very wise.
  Pedro. He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.
  Claud. And I take him to be valiant.
  Pedro. As Hector, I assure you; and in the managing of quarrels you
    may say he is wise, for either he avoids them with great
    discretion, or undertakes them with a most Christianlike fear.
  Leon. If he do fear God, 'a must necessarily keep peace. If he
    break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and
    trembling.
  Pedro. And so will he do; for the man doth fear God, howsoever it
    seems not in him by some large jests he will make. Well, I am
    sorry for your niece. Shall we go seek Benedick and tell him of
    her love?
  Claud. Never tell him, my lord. Let her wear it out with good
    counsel.
  Leon. Nay, that's impossible; she may wear her heart out first.
  Pedro. Well, we will hear further of it by your daughter. Let it
    cool the while. I love Benedick well, and I could wish he would
    modestly examine himself to see how much he is unworthy so good a
    lady.
  Leon. My lord, will you .walk? Dinner is ready.
                                               [They walk away.]
  Claud. If he dote on her upon this, I will never trust my
    expectation.
  Pedro. Let there be the same net spread for her, and that must your
    daughter and her gentlewomen carry. The sport will be, when they
    hold one an opinion of another's dotage, and no such matter.
    That's the scene that I would see, which will be merely a dumb
    show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
                       Exeunt [Don Pedro, Claudio, and Leonato].

                [Benedick advances from the arbour.]

  Bene. This can be no trick. The conference was sadly borne; they
    have the truth of this from Hero; they seem to pity the lady.
    It seems her affections have their full bent. Love me? Why, it
    must be requited. I hear how I am censur'd. They say I will bear
    myself proudly if I perceive the love come from her. They say too
    that she will rather die than give any sign of affection. I did
    never think to marry. I must not seem proud. Happy are they that
    hear their detractions and can put them to mending. They say the
    lady is fair--'tis a truth, I can bear them witness; and virtuous
    --'tis so, I cannot reprove it; and wise, but for loving me--by
    my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor no great argument of
    her folly, for I will be horribly in love with her. I may chance
    have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me because I
    have railed so long against marriage. But doth not the appetite
    alters? A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure
    in his age. Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of
    the brain awe a man from the career of his humour? No, the world
    must be peopled. When I said I would die a bachelor, I did not
    think I should live till I were married.

                 Enter Beatrice.

    Here comes Beatrice. By this day, she's a fair lady! I do spy
    some marks of love in her.
  Beat. Against my will I am sent to bid You come in to dinner.
  Bene. Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains.
  Beat. I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to
    thank me. If it had been painful, I would not have come.
  Bene. You take pleasure then in the message?
  Beat. Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knives point, and
    choke a daw withal. You have no stomach, signior. Fare you well.
Exit.
  Bene. Ha! 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.'
    There's a double meaning in that. 'I took no more pains for those
    thanks than you took pains to thank me.' That's as much as to
    say, 'Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks.' If I
    do not take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not love her, I
    am a Jew. I will go get her picture.                   Exit.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT III. Scene I.
Leonato's orchard.

Enter Hero and two Gentlewomen, Margaret and Ursula.

  Hero. Good Margaret, run thee to the parlour.
    There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice
    Proposing with the Prince and Claudio.
    Whisper her ear and tell her, I and Ursley
    Walk in the orchard, and our whole discourse
    Is all of her. Say that thou overheard'st us;
    And bid her steal into the pleached bower,
    Where honeysuckles, ripened by the sun,
    Forbid the sun to enter--like favourites,
    Made proud by princes, that advance their pride
    Against that power that bred it. There will she hide her
    To listen our propose. This is thy office.
    Bear thee well in it and leave us alone.
  Marg. I'll make her come, I warrant you, presently.    [Exit.]
  Hero. Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come,
    As we do trace this alley up and down,
    Our talk must only be of Benedick.
    When I do name him, let it be thy part
    To praise him more than ever man did merit.
    My talk to thee must be how Benedick
    Is sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter
    Is little Cupid's crafty arrow made,
    That only wounds by hearsay.

                   [Enter Beatrice.]

    Now begin;
    For look where Beatrice like a lapwing runs
    Close by the ground, to hear our conference.

               [Beatrice hides in the arbour].

  Urs. The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish
    Cut with her golden oars the silver stream
    And greedily devour the treacherous bait.
    So angle we for Beatrice, who even now
    Is couched in the woodbine coverture.
    Fear you not my part of the dialogue.
  Hero. Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing
    Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.
                                     [They approach the arbour.]
    No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful.
    I know her spirits are as coy and wild
    As haggards of the rock.
  Urs. But are you sure
    That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?
  Hero. So says the Prince, and my new-trothed lord.
  Urs. And did they bid you tell her of it, madam?
  Hero. They did entreat me to acquaint her of it;
    But I persuaded them, if they lov'd Benedick,
    To wish him wrestle with affection
    And never to let Beatrice know of it.
  Urs. Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman
    Deserve as full, as fortunate a bed
    As ever Beatrice shall couch upon?
  Hero. O god of love! I know he doth deserve
    As much as may be yielded to a man:
    But Nature never fram'd a woman's heart
    Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice.
    Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
    Misprizing what they look on; and her wit
    Values itself so highly that to her
    All matter else seems weak. She cannot love,
    Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
    She is so self-endeared.
  Urs. Sure I think so;
    And therefore certainly it were not good
    She knew his love, lest she'll make sport at it.
  Hero. Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man,
    How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featur'd,
    But she would spell him backward. If fair-fac'd,
    She would swear the gentleman should be her sister;
    If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antic,
    Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed;
    If low, an agate very vilely cut;
    If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds;
    If silent, why, a block moved with none.
    So turns she every man the wrong side out
    And never gives to truth and virtue that
    Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
  Urs. Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
  Hero. No, not to be so odd, and from all fashions,
    As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable.
    But who dare tell her so? If I should speak,
    She would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me
    Out of myself, press me to death with wit!
    Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire,
    Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly.
    It were a better death than die with mocks,
    Which is as bad as die with tickling.
  Urs. Yet tell her of it. Hear what she will say.
  Hero. No; rather I will go to Benedick
    And counsel him to fight against his passion.
    And truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
    To stain my cousin with. One doth not know
    How much an ill word may empoison liking.
  Urs. O, do not do your cousin such a wrong!
    She cannot be so much without true judgment
    (Having so swift and excellent a wit
    As she is priz'd to have) as to refuse
    So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.
  Hero. He is the only man of Italy,
    Always excepted my dear Claudio.
  Urs. I pray you be not angry with me, madam,
    Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick,
    For shape, for bearing, argument, and valour,
    Goes foremost in report through Italy.
  Hero. Indeed he hath an excellent good name.
  Urs. His excellence did earn it ere he had it.
    When are you married, madam?
  Hero. Why, every day to-morrow! Come, go in.
    I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel
    Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
                                               [They walk away.]
  Urs. She's lim'd, I warrant you! We have caught her, madam.
  Hero. If it prove so, then loving goes by haps;
    Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
                                       Exeunt [Hero and Ursula].

    [Beatrice advances from the arbour.]

  Beat. What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true?
    Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much?
    Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu!
    No glory lives behind the back of such.
    And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
    Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand.
    If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
    To bind our loves up in a holy band;
    For others say thou dost deserve, and I
    Believe it better than reportingly.                    Exit.




Scene II.
A room in Leonato's house.

Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Leonato.

  Pedro. I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go
    I toward Arragon.
  Claud. I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll vouchsafe me.
  Pedro. Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your
    marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear
    it. I will only be bold with Benedick for his company; for, from
    the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all mirth.
    He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bowstring, and the little
    hangman dare not shoot at him. He hath a heart as sound as a
    bell; and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks,
    his tongue speaks.
  Bene. Gallants, I am not as I have been.
  Leon. So say I. Methinks you are sadder.
  Claud. I hope he be in love.
  Pedro. Hang him, truant! There's no true drop of blood in him to be
    truly touch'd with love. If he be sad, he wants money.
  Bene. I have the toothache.
  Pedro. Draw it.
  Bene. Hang it!
  Claud. You must hang it first and draw it afterwards.
  Pedro. What? sigh for the toothache?
  Leon. Where is but a humour or a worm.
  Bene. Well, every one can master a grief but he that has it.
  Claud. Yet say I he is in love.
  Pedro. There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy
    that he hath to strange disguises; as to be a Dutchman to-day, a
    