 the sword that kill'd thee.                  Dies.
  PINDARUS. So, I am free, yet would not so have been,
    Durst I have done my will. O Cassius!
    Far from this country Pindarus shall run,
    Where never Roman shall take note of him.              Exit.

                Re-enter Titinius with Messala.

  MESSALA. It is but change, Titinius, for Octavius
    Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power,
    As Cassius' legions are by Antony.
  TITINIUS. These tidings would well comfort Cassius.
  MESSALA. Where did you leave him?
  TITINIUS. All disconsolate,
    With Pindarus his bondman, on this hill.
  MESSALA. Is not that he that lies upon the ground?
  TITINIUS. He lies not like the living. O my heart!
  MESSALA. Is not that he?
  TITINIUS. No, this was he, Messala,
    But Cassius is no more. O setting sun,
    As in thy red rays thou dost sink to night,
    So in his red blood Cassius' day is set,
    The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone;
    Clouds, dews, and dangers come; our deeds are done!
    Mistrust of my success hath done this deed.
  MESSALA. Mistrust of good success hath done this deed.
    O hateful error, melancholy's child,
    Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men
    The things that are not? O error, soon conceived,
    Thou never comest unto a happy birth,
    But kill'st the mother that engender'd thee!
  TITINIUS. What, Pindarus! Where art thou, Pindarus?
  MESSALA. Seek him, Titinius, whilst I go to meet
    The noble Brutus, thrusting this report
    Into his ears. I may say "thrusting" it,
    For piercing steel and darts envenomed
    Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus
    As tidings of this sight.
  TITINIUS. Hie you, Messala,
    And I will seek for Pindarus the while.        Exit Messala.
    Why didst thou send me forth, brave Cassius?
    Did I not meet thy friends? And did not they
    Put on my brows this wreath of victory,
    And bid me give it thee? Didst thou not hear their shouts?
    Alas, thou hast misconstrued everything!
    But, hold thee, take this garland on thy brow;
    Thy Brutus bid me give it thee, and I
    Will do his bidding. Brutus, come apace,
    And see how I regarded Caius Cassius.
    By your leave, gods, this is a Roman's part.
    Come, Cassius' sword, and find Titinius' heart.
                                                  Kills himself.

       Alarum. Re-enter Messala, with Brutus, young Cato,
                         and others.

  BRUTUS. Where, where, Messala, doth his body lie?
  MESSALA. Lo, yonder, and Titinius mourning it.
  BRUTUS. Titinius' face is upward.
  CATO. He is slain.
  BRUTUS. O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet!
    Thy spirit walks abroad, and turns our swords
    In our own proper entrails.                     Low alarums.
  CATO. Brave Titinius!
    Look whe'er he have not crown'd dead Cassius!
  BRUTUS. Are yet two Romans living such as these?
    The last of all the Romans, fare thee well!
    It is impossible that ever Rome
    Should breed thy fellow. Friends, I owe moe tears
    To this dead man than you shall see me pay.
    I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time.
    Come therefore, and to Thasos send his body;
    His funerals shall not be in our camp,
    Lest it discomfort us. Lucilius, come,
    And come, young Cato; let us to the field.
    Labio and Flavio, set our battles on.
    'Tis three o'clock, and Romans, yet ere night
    We shall try fortune in a second fight.              Exeunt.




SCENE IV.
Another part of the field.

Alarum. Enter, fighting, Soldiers of both armies; then Brutus, young Cato,
Lucilius, and others.

  BRUTUS. Yet, countrymen, O, yet hold up your heads!
  CATO. What bastard doth not? Who will go with me?
    I will proclaim my name about the field.
    I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
    A foe to tyrants, and my country's friend.
    I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
  BRUTUS. And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I;
    Brutus, my country's friend; know me for Brutus!       Exit.
  LUCILIUS. O young and noble Cato, art thou down?
    Why, now thou diest as bravely as Titinius,
    And mayst be honor'd, being Cato's son.
  FIRST SOLDIER. Yield, or thou diest.
  LUCILIUS. Only I yield to die.
    [Offers money.] There is so much that thou wilt kill me straight:
    Kill Brutus, and be honor'd in his death.
  FIRST SOLDIER. We must not. A noble prisoner!
  SECOND SOLDIER. Room, ho! Tell Antony, Brutus is ta'en.
  FIRST SOLDIER. I'll tell the news. Here comes the general.

                         Enter Antony.

    Brutus is ta'en, Brutus is ta'en, my lord.
  ANTONY. Where is he?
  LUCILIUS. Safe, Antony, Brutus is safe enough.
    I dare assure thee that no enemy
    Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus;
    The gods defend him from so great a shame!
    When you do find him, or alive or dead,
    He will be found like Brutus, like himself.
  ANTONY. This is not Brutus, friend, but, I assure you,
    A prize no less in worth. Keep this man safe,
    Give him all kindness; I had rather have
    Such men my friends than enemies. Go on,
    And see wheer Brutus be alive or dead,
    And bring us word unto Octavius' tent
    How everything is chanced.                           Exeunt.




SCENE V.
Another part of the field.

Enter Brutus, Dardanius, Clitus, Strato, and Volumnius.

  BRUTUS. Come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock.
  CLITUS. Statilius show'd the torchlight, but, my lord,
    He came not back. He is or ta'en or slain.
  BRUTUS. Sit thee down, Clitus. Slaying is the word:
    It is a deed in fashion. Hark thee, Clitus.        Whispers.
  CLITUS. What, I, my lord? No, not for all the world.
  BRUTUS. Peace then, no words.
  CLITUS. I'll rather kill myself.
  BRUTUS. Hark thee, Dardanius.                        Whispers.
  DARDANIUS. Shall I do such a deed?
  CLITUS. O Dardanius!
  DARDANIUS. O Clitus!
  CLITUS. What ill request did Brutus make to thee?
  DARDANIUS. To kill him, Clitus. Look, he meditates.
  CLITUS. Now is that noble vessel full of grief,
    That it runs over even at his eyes.
  BRUTUS. Come hither, good Volumnius, list a word.
  VOLUMNIUS. What says my lord?
  BRUTUS. Why, this, Volumnius:
    The ghost of Caesar hath appear'd to me
    Two several times by night; at Sardis once,
    And this last night here in Philippi fields.
    I know my hour is come.
  VOLUMNIUS. Not so, my lord.
  BRUTUS. Nay I am sure it is, Volumnius.
    Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes;
    Our enemies have beat us to the pit;            Low alarums.
    It is more worthy to leap in ourselves
    Than tarry till they push us. Good Volumnius,
    Thou know'st that we two went to school together;
    Even for that our love of old, I prithee,
    Hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst I run on it.
  VOLUMNIUS. That's not an office for a friend, my lord.
                                                   Alarum still.
  CLITUS. Fly, fly, my lord, there is no tarrying here.
  BRUTUS. Farewell to you, and you, and you, Volumnius.
    Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep;
    Farewell to thee too, Strato. Countrymen,
    My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
    I found no man but he was true to me.
    I shall have glory by this losing day,
    More than Octavius and Mark Antony
    By this vile conquest shall attain unto.
    So, fare you well at once, for Brutus' tongue
    Hath almost ended his life's history.
    Night hangs upon mine eyes, my bones would rest
    That have but lab