t he may; for even out of that
    will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny, whose qualification shall
    come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio.
    So shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means
    I shall then have to prefer them, and the impediment most
    profitably removed, without the which there were no expectation
    of our prosperity.
  RODERIGO. I will do this, if I can bring it to any opportunity.
  IAGO. I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel. I must
    fetch his necessaries ashore. Farewell.
  RODERIGO. Adieu.                                              Exit.
  IAGO. That Cassio loves her, I do well believe it;
    That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit.
    The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not,
    Is of a constant, loving, noble nature,
    And I dare think he'll prove to Desdemona
    A most dear husband. Now, I do love her too,
    Not out of absolute lust, though peradventure
    I stand accountant for as great a sin,
    But partly led to diet my revenge,
    For that I do suspect the lusty Moor
    Hath leap'd into my seat; the thought whereof
    Doth like a poisonous mineral gnaw my inwards,
    And nothing can or shall content my soul
    Till I am even'd with him, wife for wife.
    Or failing so, yet that I put the Moor
    At least into a jealousy so strong
    That judgement cannot cure. Which thing to do,
    If this poor trash of Venice, whom I trace
    For his quick hunting, stand the putting on,
    I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip,
    Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb
    (For I fear Cassio with my nightcap too),
    Make the Moor thank me, love me, and reward me
    For making him egregiously an ass
    And practicing upon his peace and quiet
    Even to madness. 'Tis here, but yet confused:
    Knavery's plain face is never seen till used.               Exit.




SCENE II.
A street.

Enter a Herald with a proclamation; people following.

  HERALD. It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant general,
    that upon certain tidings now arrived, importing the mere
    perdition of the Turkish fleet, every man put himself into
    triumph; some to dance, some to make bonfires, each man to what
    sport and revels his addiction leads him; for besides these
    beneficial news, it is the celebration of his nuptial. So much
    was his pleasure should be proclaimed. All offices are open, and
    there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five
    till the bell have told eleven. Heaven bless the isle of Cyprus
    and our noble general Othello!                            Exeunt.




SCENE III.
A hall in the castle.

Enter Othello, Desdemona, Cassio, and Attendants.

  OTHELLO. Good Michael, look you to the guard tonight.
    Let's teach ourselves that honorable stop,
    Not to outsport discretion.
  CASSIO. Iago hath direction what to do;
    But notwithstanding with my personal eye
    Will I look to't.
  OTHELLO.            Iago is most honest.
    Michael, good night. Tomorrow with your earliest
    Let me have speech with you. Come, my dear love,
    The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue;
    That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.
    Good night.
                           Exeunt Othello, Desdemona, and Attendants.

                             Enter Iago.

  CASSIO. Welcome, Iago; we must to the watch.
  IAGO. Not this hour, lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the clock. Our
    general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona; who let
    us not therefore blame. He hath not yet made wanton the night
    with her, and she is sport for Jove.
  CASSIO. She's a most exquisite lady.
  IAGO. And, I'll warrant her, full of game.
  CASSIO. Indeed she's a most fresh and delicate creature.
  IAGO. What an eye she has! Methinks it sounds a parley to
    provocation.
  CASSIO. An inviting eye; and yet methinks right modest.
  IAGO. And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
  CASSIO. She is indeed perfection.
  IAGO. Well, happiness to their sheets! Come, lieutenant, I have a
    stope of wine, and here without are a brace of Cyprus gallants
    that would fain have a measure to the health of black Othello.
  CASSIO. Not tonight, good Iago. I have very poor and unhappy brains
    for drinking. I could well wish courtesy would invent some other
    custom of entertainment.
  IAGO. O, they are our friends! But one cup; I'll drink for you.
  CASSIO. I have drunk but one cup tonight, and that was craftily
    qualified too, and behold what innovation it makes here. I am
    unfortunate in the infirmity, and dare not task my weakness with
    any more.
  IAGO. What, man! 'Tis a night of revels, the gallants desire it.
  CASSIO. Where are they?
  IAGO. Here at the door; I pray you, call them in.
  CASSIO. I'll do't, but it dislikes me.                        Exit.
  IAGO. If I can fasten but one cup upon him,
    With that which he hath drunk tonight already,
    He'll be as full of quarrel and offense
    As my young mistress' dog. Now my sick fool Roderigo,
    Whom love hath turn'd almost the wrong side out,
    To Desdemona hath tonight caroused
    Potations pottle-deep; and he's to watch.
    Three lads of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits,
    That hold their honors in a wary distance,
    The very elements of this warlike isle,
    Have I tonight fluster'd with flowing cups,
    And they watch too. Now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards,
    Am I to put our Cassio in some action
    That may offend the isle. But here they come.
    If consequence do but approve my dream,
    My boat sails freely, both with wind and stream.

           Re-enter Cassio; with him Montano and Gentlemen;
                    Servants following with wine.

  CASSIO. 'Fore God, they have given me a rouse already.
  MONTANO. Good faith, a little one; not past a pint, as I am a
    soldier.
  IAGO. Some wine, ho!

    [Sings.]   "And let me the canakin clink, clink;
               And let me the canakin clink.
                 A soldier's a man;
                 O, man's life's but a span;
               Why then let a soldier drink."

    Some wine, boys!
  CASSIO. 'Fore God, an excellent song.
  IAGO. I learned it in England, where indeed they are most potent in
    potting. Your Dane, your German, and your swag-bellied Hollander-
    Drink, ho!- are nothing to your English.
  CASSIO. Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?
  IAGO. Why, he drinks you with facility your Dane dead drunk; he
    sweats not to overthrow your Almain; he gives your Hollander a
    vomit ere the next pottle can be filled.
  CASSIO. To the health of our general!
  MONTANO. I am for it, lieutenant, and I'll do you justice.
  IAGO. O sweet England!

    [Sings.]   "King Stephen was and-a worthy peer,
                 His breeches cost him but a crown;
               He held them sixpence all too dear,
                 With that he call'd the tailor lown.

               "He was a wight of high renown,
                 And thou art but of low degree.
               'Tis pride that pulls the country down;
                 Then take thine auld cloak about thee."

    Some wine, ho!
  CASSIO. Why, this is a more exquisite song than the other.
  IAGO. Will you hear't again?
  CASSIO. No, for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that does
    those things. Well, God's above all, and there be souls must be
    saved, and there be souls must not be saved.
  IAGO. It's true, good lieutenant.
  CASSIO. For mine own part- no offense to the general, nor an