    spectacles.
  Edm. I beseech you, sir, pardon me. It is a letter from my brother
     that I have not all o'er-read; and for so much as I have
     perus'd, I find it not fit for your o'erlooking.
  Glou. Give me the letter, sir.
  Edm. I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The contents, as
     in part I understand them, are to blame.
  Glou. Let's see, let's see!
  Edm. I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote this but as
     an essay or taste of my virtue.

  Glou. (reads) 'This policy and reverence of age makes the world
     bitter to the best of our times; keeps our fortunes from us
     till our oldness cannot relish them. I begin to find an idle
     and fond bondage in the oppression of aged tyranny, who sways,
     not as it hath power, but as it is suffer'd. Come to me, that
     of this I may speak more. If our father would sleep till I
     wak'd him, you should enjoy half his revenue for ever, and live
     the beloved of your brother,
                                                        'EDGAR.'

     Hum! Conspiracy? 'Sleep till I wak'd him, you should enjoy half
     his revenue.' My son Edgar! Had he a hand to write this? a heart
     and brain to breed it in? When came this to you? Who brought it?
  Edm. It was not brought me, my lord: there's the cunning of it. I
     found it thrown in at the casement of my closet.
  Glou. You know the character to be your brother's?
  Edm. If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear it were his;
     but in respect of that, I would fain think it were not.
  Glou. It is his.
  Edm. It is his hand, my lord; but I hope his heart is not in the
     contents.
  Glou. Hath he never before sounded you in this business?
  Edm. Never, my lord. But I have heard him oft maintain it to be fit
     that, sons at perfect age, and fathers declining, the father
     should be as ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.
  Glou. O villain, villain! His very opinion in the letter! Abhorred
     villain! Unnatural, detested, brutish villain! worse than
     brutish! Go, sirrah, seek him. I'll apprehend him. Abominable
     villain! Where is he?
  Edm. I do not well know, my lord. If it shall please you to suspend
     your indignation against my brother till you can derive from him
     better testimony of his intent, you should run a certain course;
     where, if you violently proceed against him, mistaking his
     purpose, it would make a great gap in your own honour and shake
     in pieces the heart of his obedience. I dare pawn down my life
     for him that he hath writ this to feel my affection to your
     honour, and to no other pretence of danger.
  Glou. Think you so?
  Edm. If your honour judge it meet, I will place you where you shall
     hear us confer of this and by an auricular assurance have your
     satisfaction, and that without any further delay than this very
     evening.
  Glou. He cannot be such a monster.
  Edm. Nor is not, sure.
  Glou. To his father, that so tenderly and entirely loves him.
     Heaven and earth! Edmund, seek him out; wind me into him, I pray
     you; frame the business after your own wisdom. I would unstate
     myself to be in a due resolution.
  Edm. I will seek him, sir, presently; convey the business as I
     shall find means, and acquaint you withal.
  Glou. These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend no good to
     us. Though the wisdom of nature can reason it thus and thus, yet
     nature finds itself scourg'd by the sequent effects. Love cools,
     friendship falls off, brothers divide. In cities, mutinies; in
     countries, discord; in palaces, treason; and the bond crack'd
     'twixt son and father. This villain of mine comes under the
     prediction; there's son against father: the King falls from bias
     of nature; there's father against child. We have seen the best
     of our time. Machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all
     ruinous disorders follow us disquietly to our graves. Find out
     this villain, Edmund; it shall lose thee nothing; do it
     carefully. And the noble and true-hearted Kent banish'd! his
     offence, honesty! 'Tis strange.                       Exit.
  Edm. This is the excellent foppery of the world, that, when we are
     sick in fortune, often the surfeit of our own behaviour, we make
     guilty of our disasters the sun, the moon, and the stars; as if
     we were villains on necessity; fools by heavenly compulsion;
     knaves, thieves, and treachers by spherical pre-dominance;
     drunkards, liars, and adulterers by an enforc'd obedience of
     planetary influence; and all that we are evil in, by a divine
     thrusting on. An admirable evasion of whore-master man, to lay
     his goatish disposition to the charge of a star! My father
     compounded with my mother under the Dragon's Tail, and my
     nativity was under Ursa Major, so that it follows I am rough and
     lecherous. Fut! I should have been that I am, had the
     maidenliest star in the firmament twinkled on my bastardizing.
     Edgar-

                             Enter Edgar.

     and pat! he comes, like the catastrophe of the old comedy. My
     cue is villainous melancholy, with a sigh like Tom o' Bedlam.
     O, these eclipses do portend these divisions! Fa, sol, la, mi.
  Edg. How now, brother Edmund? What serious contemplation are you
     in?
  Edm. I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read this other day,
     what should follow these eclipses.
  Edg. Do you busy yourself with that?
  Edm. I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed unhappily: as
     of unnaturalness between the child and the parent; death,
     dearth, dissolutions of ancient amities; divisions in state,
     menaces and maledictions against king and nobles; needless
     diffidences, banishment of friends, dissipation of cohorts,
     nuptial breaches, and I know not what.
  Edg. How long have you been a sectary astronomical?
  Edm. Come, come! When saw you my father last?
  Edg. The night gone by.
  Edm. Spake you with him?
  Edg. Ay, two hours together.
  Edm. Parted you in good terms? Found you no displeasure in him by
     word or countenance
  Edg. None at all.
  Edm. Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended him; and at my
     entreaty forbear his presence until some little time hath
     qualified the heat of his displeasure, which at this instant so
     rageth in him that with the mischief of your person it would
     scarcely allay.
  Edg. Some villain hath done me wrong.
  Edm. That's my fear. I pray you have a continent forbearance till
     the speed of his rage goes slower; and, as I say, retire with me
     to my lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to hear my
     lord speak. Pray ye, go! There's my key. If you do stir abroad,
     go arm'd.
  Edg. Arm'd, brother?
  Edm. Brother, I advise you to the best. Go arm'd. I am no honest man
     if there be any good meaning toward you. I have told you what I
     have seen and heard; but faintly, nothing like the image and
     horror of it. Pray you, away!
  Edg. Shall I hear from you anon?
  Edm. I do serve you in this business.
                                                     Exit Edgar.
     A credulous father! and a brother noble,
     Whose nature is so far from doing harms
     That he suspects none; on whose foolish honesty
     My practices ride easy! I see the business.
     Let me, if not by birth, have lands by wit;
     All with me's meet that I can fashion fit.
Exit.




Scene III.
The Duke of Albany's Palace.

Enter Goneril and [her] Steward [Oswald].

  Gon. Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
  Osw. Ay, madam.
  Gon. By day and night, he wrongs me! Every hour
     He flashes into one gross crime or other
     That sets us all at odds. I'll not endure it.
     His knights grow riotous, and himself upbraids us
     On every trifle. When h