rried shall on her behalf
    Change slander to remorse. That is some good.
    But not for that dream I on this strange course,
    But on this travail look for greater birth.
    She dying, as it must be so maintain'd,
    Upon the instant that she was accus'd,
    Shall be lamented, pitied, and excus'd
    Of every hearer; for it so falls out
    That what we have we prize not to the worth
    Whiles we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost,
    Why, then we rack the value, then we find
    The virtue that possession would not show us
    Whiles it was ours. So will it fare with Claudio.
    When he shall hear she died upon his words,
    Th' idea of her life shall sweetly creep
    Into his study of imagination,
    And every lovely organ of her life
    Shall come apparell'd in more precious habit,
    More moving, delicate, and full of life,
    Into the eye and prospect of his soul
    Than when she liv'd indeed. Then shall he mourn
    (If ever love had interest in his liver)
    And wish he had not so accused her--
    No, though be thought his accusation true.
    Let this be so, and doubt not but success
    Will fashion the event in better shape
    Than I can lay it down in likelihood.
    But if all aim but this be levell'd false,
    The supposition of the lady's death
    Will quench the wonder of her infamy.
    And if it sort not well, you may conceal her,
    As best befits her wounded reputation,
    In some reclusive and religious life,
    Out of all eyes, tongues, minds, and injuries.
  Bene. Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you;
    And though you know my inwardness and love
    Is very much unto the Prince and Claudio,
    Yet, by mine honour, I will deal in this
    As secretly and justly as your soul
    Should with your body.
  Leon. Being that I flow in grief,
    The smallest twine may lead me.
  Friar. 'Tis well consented. Presently away;
    For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
    Come, lady, die to live. This wedding day
    Perhaps is but prolong'd. Have patience and endure.
                         Exeunt [all but Benedick and Beatrice].
  Bene. Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
  Beat. Yea, and I will weep a while longer.
  Bene. I will not desire that.
  Beat. You have no reason. I do it freely.
  Bene. Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
  Beat. Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right
     her!
  Bene. Is there any way to show such friendship?
  Beat. A very even way, but no such friend.
  Bene. May a man do it?
  Beat. It is a man's office, but not yours.
  Bene. I do love nothing in the world so well as you. Is not that
    strange?
  Beat. As strange as the thing I know not. It were as possible for
    me to say I loved nothing so well as you. But believe me not; and
    yet I lie not. I confess nothing, nor I deny nothing. I am sorry
    for my cousin.
  Bene. By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
  Beat. Do not swear, and eat it.
  Bene. I will swear by it that you love me, and I will make him eat
    it that says I love not you.
  Beat. Will you not eat your word?
  Bene. With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest I love
    thee.
  Beat. Why then, God forgive me!
  Bene. What offence, sweet Beatrice?
  Beat. You have stayed me in a happy hour. I was about to protest I
    loved you.
  Bene. And do it with all thy heart.
  Beat. I love you with so much of my heart that none is left to
    protest.
  Bene. Come, bid me do anything for thee.
  Beat. Kill Claudio.
  Bene. Ha! not for the wide world!
  Beat. You kill me to deny it. Farewell.
  Bene. Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
  Beat. I am gone, though I am here. There is no love in you. Nay, I
    pray you let me go.
  Bene. Beatrice--
  Beat. In faith, I will go.
  Bene. We'll be friends first.
  Beat. You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine
    enemy.
  Bene. Is Claudio thine enemy?
  Beat. Is 'a not approved in the height a villain, that hath
    slandered, scorned, dishonoured my kinswoman? O that I were a
    man! What? bear her in hand until they come to take hands, and
    then with public accusation, uncover'd slander, unmitigated
    rancour--O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart in the
    market place.
  Bene. Hear me, Beatrice!
  Beat. Talk with a man out at a window!-a proper saying!
  Bene. Nay but Beatrice--
  Beat. Sweet Hero! she is wrong'd, she is sland'red, she is undone.
  Bene. Beat--
  Beat. Princes and Counties! Surely a princely testimony, a goodly
    count, Count Comfect, a sweet gallant surely! O that I were a man
    for his sake! or that I had any friend would be a man for my
    sake! But manhood is melted into cursies, valour into compliment,
    and men are only turn'd into tongue, and trim ones too. He is now
    as valiant as Hercules that only tells a lie,and swears it. I
    cannot be a man with wishing; therefore I will die a woman with
    grieving.
  Bene. Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee.
  Beat. Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.
  Bene. Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wrong'd Hero?
  Beat. Yea, as sure is I have a thought or a soul.
  Bene. Enough, I am engag'd, I will challenge him. I will kiss your
    hand, and so I leave you. By this hand, Claudio shall render me a
    dear account. As you hear of me, so think of me. Go comfort your
    cousin. I must say she is dead-and so farewell.
                                                       [Exeunt.]




Scene II.
A prison.

Enter the Constables [Dogberry and Verges] and the Sexton, in gowns,
[and the Watch, with Conrade and] Borachio.

  Dog. Is our whole dissembly appear'd?
  Verg. O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
  Sex. Which be the malefactors?
  Dog. Marry, that am I and my partner.
  Verg. Nay, that's certain. We have the exhibition to examine.
  Sex. But which are the offenders that are to be examined? let them
    come before Master Constable.
  Dog. Yea, marry, let them come before me. What is your name,
    friend?
  Bor. Borachio.
  Dog. Pray write down Borachio. Yours, sirrah?
  Con. I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
  Dog. Write down Master Gentleman Conrade. Masters, do you serve
    God?
  Both. Yea, sir, we hope.
  Dog. Write down that they hope they serve God; and write God first,
    for God defend but God should go before such villains! Masters,
    it is proved already that you are little better than false
    knaves, and it will go near to be thought so shortly. How answer
    you for yourselves?
  Con. Marry, sir, we say we are none.
  Dog. A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you; but I will go about
    with him. Come you hither, sirrah. A word in your ear. Sir, I say
    to you, it is thought you are false knaves.
  Bora. Sir, I say to you we are none.
  Dog. Well, stand aside. Fore God, they are both in a tale.
    Have you writ down that they are none?
  Sex. Master Constable, you go not the way to examine. You must call
    forth the watch that are their accusers.
  Dog. Yea, marry, that's the eftest way. Let the watch come forth.
    Masters, I charge you in the Prince's name accuse these men.
  1. Watch. This man said, sir, that Don John the Prince's brother
    was a villain.
  Dog. Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat perjury,
    to call a prince's brother villain.
  Bora. Master Constable--
  Dog. Pray thee, fellow, peace. I do not like thy look, I promise
    thee.
  Sex. What heard you him say else?
  2. Watch. Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats of Don John
    for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.
  Dog. Flat burglary as ever was committed.
  Verg. Yea, by th' mass, that it is.
  Sex. What else, fellow?
  1. Watch. And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to
    disgrace Hero before the whole assembly, and not marry her.
  Dog. O villain! thou wilt be condemn'd into everlasting redemption
    for this.
  Sex. What else?
  Watchmen. This is all.
  Sex. And this is more, masters, than you can deny. Prince John is
    this morning secretly stol'n away. Hero was in this manner
    accus'd, in this manner refus'd, and upon the grief of this
    suddenly died. Master Constable, let these men be bound and
    brought to Leonato's. I will go before and show him their
    examination.                                         [Exit.]
  Dog. Come, let them be opinion'd.
  Verg. Let them be in the hands--
  Con. Off, coxcomb!
  Dog. God's my life, where's the sexton? Let him write down the
    Prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.--Thou naughty varlet!
  Con. Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
  Dog. Dost thou not suspect my place? Dost thou not suspect my
    years? O that he were here to write me down an ass! But, masters,
    remember that I am an ass. Though it be not written down, yet
    forget not that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of
    piety, as shall be prov'd upon thee by good witness. I am a wise
    fellow; and which is more, an officer; and which is more, a
    householder; and which is more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any
    is in Messina, and one that knows the law, go to! and a rich
    fellow enough, go to! and a fellow that hath had losses; and one
    that hath two gowns and everything handsome about him. Bring him
    away. O that I had been writ down an ass!
                                                         Exeunt.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT V. Scene I.
The street, near Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato and his brother [ Antonio].

  Ant. If you go on thus, you will kill yourself,
    And 'tis not wisdom thus to second grief
    Against yourself.
  Leon. I pray thee cease thy counsel,
    Which falls into mine ears as profitless
    As water in a sieve. Give not me counsel,
    Nor let no comforter delight mine ear
    But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine.
    Bring me a father that so lov'd his child,
    Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine,
    And bid him speak to me of patience.
    Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine,
    And let it answer every strain for strain,
    As thus for thus, and such a grief for such,
    In every lineament, branch, shape, and form.
    If such a one will smile and stroke his beard,
    Bid sorrow wag, cry 'hem' when he should groan,
    Patch grief with proverbs, make misfortune drunk
    With candle-wasters--bring him yet to me,
    And I of him will gather patience.
    But there is no such man; for, brother, men
    Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief
    Which they themselves not feel; but, tasting it,
    Their counsel turns to passion, which before
    Would give preceptial medicine to rage,
    Fetter strong madness in a silken thread,
    Charm ache with air and agony with words.
    No, no! 'Tis all men's office to speak patience
    To those that wring under the load of sorrow,
    But no man's virtue nor sufficiency
    To be so moral when he shall endure
    The like himself. Therefore give me no counsel.
    My griefs cry louder than advertisement.
  Ant. Therein do men from children nothing differ.
  Leon. I pray thee peace. I will be flesh and blood;
    For there was never yet philosopher
    That could endure the toothache patiently,
    However they have writ the style of gods
    And made a push at chance and sufferance.
  Ant. Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself.
    Make those that do offend you suffer too.
  Leon. There thou speak'st reason. Nay, I will do so.
    My soul d