and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
     This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,
     The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
     Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he runs,
     And bids what will take all.
  Kent. But who is with him?
  Gent. None but the fool, who labours to outjest
     His heart-struck injuries.
  Kent. Sir, I do know you,
     And dare upon the warrant of my note
     Commend a dear thing to you. There is division
     (Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
     With mutual cunning) 'twixt Albany and Cornwall;
     Who have (as who have not, that their great stars
     Thron'd and set high?) servants, who seem no less,
     Which are to France the spies and speculations
     Intelligent of our state. What hath been seen,
     Either in snuffs and packings of the Dukes,
     Or the hard rein which both of them have borne
     Against the old kind King, or something deeper,
     Whereof, perchance, these are but furnishings-
     But, true it is, from France there comes a power
     Into this scattered kingdom, who already,
     Wise in our negligence, have secret feet
     In some of our best ports and are at point
     To show their open banner. Now to you:
     If on my credit you dare build so far
     To make your speed to Dover, you shall find
     Some that will thank you, making just report
     Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow
     The King hath cause to plain.
     I am a gentleman of blood and breeding,
     And from some knowledge and assurance offer
     This office to you.
  Gent. I will talk further with you.
  Kent. No, do not.
     For confirmation that I am much more
     Than my out-wall, open this purse and take
     What it contains. If you shall see Cordelia
     (As fear not but you shall), show her this ring,
     And she will tell you who your fellow is
     That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!
     I will go seek the King.
  Gent. Give me your hand. Have you no more to say?
  Kent. Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet:
     That, when we have found the King (in which your pain
     That way, I'll this), he that first lights on him
     Holla the other.
                                             Exeunt [severally].




Scene II.
Another part of the heath.

Storm still. Enter Lear and Fool.

  Lear. Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!
     You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
     Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
     You sulph'rous and thought-executing fires,
     Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
     Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
     Strike flat the thick rotundity o' th' world,
     Crack Nature's moulds, all germains spill at once,
     That makes ingrateful man!
  Fool. O nuncle, court holy water in a dry house is better than this
     rain water out o' door. Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters
     blessing! Here's a night pities nether wise men nor fools.
  Lear. Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
     Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire are my daughters.
     I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness.
     I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
     You owe me no subscription. Then let fall
     Your horrible pleasure. Here I stand your slave,
     A poor, infirm, weak, and despis'd old man.
     But yet I call you servile ministers,
     That will with two pernicious daughters join
     Your high-engender'd battles 'gainst a head
     So old and white as this! O! O! 'tis foul!
  Fool. He that has a house to put 's head in has a good head-piece.
          The codpiece that will house
            Before the head has any,
          The head and he shall louse:
            So beggars marry many.
          The man that makes his toe
            What he his heart should make
          Shall of a corn cry woe,
            And turn his sleep to wake.
     For there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths in a
     glass.

                             Enter Kent.

  Lear. No, I will be the pattern of all patience;
     I will say nothing.
  Kent. Who's there?
  Fool. Marry, here's grace and a codpiece; that's a wise man and a
     fool.
  Kent. Alas, sir, are you here? Things that love night
     Love not such nights as these. The wrathful skies
     Gallow the very wanderers of the dark
     And make them keep their caves. Since I was man,
     Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
     Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
     Remember to have heard. Man's nature cannot carry
     Th' affliction nor the fear.
  Lear. Let the great gods,
     That keep this dreadful pudder o'er our heads,
     Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,
     That hast within thee undivulged crimes
     Unwhipp'd of justice. Hide thee, thou bloody hand;
     Thou perjur'd, and thou simular man of virtue
     That art incestuous. Caitiff, in pieces shake
     That under covert and convenient seeming
     Hast practis'd on man's life. Close pent-up guilts,
     Rive your concealing continents, and cry
     These dreadful summoners grace. I am a man
     More sinn'd against than sinning.
  Kent. Alack, bareheaded?
     Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;
     Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest.
     Repose you there, whilst I to this hard house
     (More harder than the stones whereof 'tis rais'd,
     Which even but now, demanding after you,
     Denied me to come in) return, and force
     Their scanted courtesy.
  Lear. My wits begin to turn.
     Come on, my boy. How dost, my boy? Art cold?
     I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my fellow?
     The art of our necessities is strange,
     That can make vile things precious. Come, your hovel.
     Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart
     That's sorry yet for thee.
  Fool. [sings]

          He that has and a little tiny wit-
            With hey, ho, the wind and the rain-
          Must make content with his fortunes fit,
             For the rain it raineth every day.

  Lear. True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel.
                                         Exeunt [Lear and Kent].
  Fool. This is a brave night to cool a courtesan. I'll speak a
     prophecy ere I go:
          When priests are more in word than matter;
          When brewers mar their malt with water;
          When nobles are their tailors' tutors,
          No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors;
          When every case in law is right,
          No squire in debt nor no poor knight;
          When slanders do not live in tongues,
          Nor cutpurses come not to throngs;
          When usurers tell their gold i' th' field,
          And bawds and whores do churches build:
          Then shall the realm of Albion
          Come to great confusion.
          Then comes the time, who lives to see't,
          That going shall be us'd with feet.
     This prophecy Merlin shall make, for I live before his time.
Exit.




Scene III.
Gloucester's Castle.

Enter Gloucester and Edmund.

  Glou. Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural dealing! When
     I desir'd their leave that I might pity him, they took from me
     the use of mine own house, charg'd me on pain of perpetual
     displeasure neither to speak of him, entreat for him, nor any
     way sustain him.
  Edm. Most savage and unnatural!
  Glou. Go to; say you nothing. There is division betwixt the Dukes,
     and a worse matter than that. I have received a letter this
     night- 'tis dangerous to be spoken- I have lock'd the letter in
     my closet. These injuries the King now bears will be revenged
     home; there's part of a power already footed; we must incline to
     the King. I will seek him and privily relieve him. Go you and
     maintain talk with the Duke, that my charity be not of him
     perceived. If he ask for me, I am ill and gone to bed. Though I
     die for't, as no less is threat'ned me, the King my old master
     must be relieved. There is some strange thing toward, Edmund.
     Pray you be careful.                                  Exit.
  Edm. This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the Duke
     Instantly know, and of that letter too.
     This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me
     That which my father loses- no less than all.
     The younger rises when the old doth fall.             Exit.




Scene IV.
The heath. Before a hovel.

Storm still. Enter Lear, Kent, and Fool.

  Kent. Here is the place, my lord. Good my lord, enter.
     The tyranny of the open night 's too rough
     For nature to endure.
  Lear. Let me alone.
  Kent. Good my lord, enter here.
  Lear. Wilt break my heart?
  