ce take air and taint.
  FABIAN. Why, we shall make him mad indeed.
  MARIA. The house will be the quieter.
  SIR TOBY. Come, we'll have him in a dark room and bound. My niece
    is already in the belief that he's mad. We may carry it thus, for
    our pleasure and his penance, till our very pastime, tired out of
    breath, prompt us to have mercy on him; at which time we will
    bring the device to the bar and crown thee for a finder of
    madmen. But see, but see.

                     Enter SIR ANDREW

  FABIAN. More matter for a May morning.
  AGUECHEEK. Here's the challenge; read it. I warrant there's vinegar
    and pepper in't.
  FABIAN. Is't so saucy?
  AGUECHEEK. Ay, is't, I warrant him; do but read.
  SIR TOBY. Give me. [Reads] 'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art
    but a scurvy fellow.'
  FABIAN. Good and valiant.
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Wonder not, nor admire not in thy mind, why I do
    call thee so, for I will show thee no reason for't.'
  FABIAN. A good note; that keeps you from the blow of the law.
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Thou com'st to the Lady Olivia, and in my sight
    she uses thee kindly; but thou liest in thy throat; that is not
    the matter I challenge thee for.'
  FABIAN. Very brief, and to exceeding good sense- less.
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'I will waylay thee going home; where if it be
    thy chance to kill me'-
  FABIAN. Good.
  SIR TOBY. 'Thou kill'st me like a rogue and a villain.'
  FABIAN. Still you keep o' th' windy side of the law. Good!
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Fare thee well; and God have mercy upon one of
    our souls! He may have mercy upon mine; but my hope is better,
    and so look to thyself. Thy friend, as thou usest him, and thy
    sworn enemy,
                                              ANDREW AGUECHEEK.'

    If this letter move him not, his legs cannot. I'll give't him.
  MARIA. You may have very fit occasion for't; he is now in some
    commerce with my lady, and will by and by depart.
  SIR TOBY. Go, Sir Andrew; scout me for him at the corner of the
    orchard, like a bum-baily; so soon as ever thou seest him, draw;
    and as thou draw'st, swear horrible; for it comes to pass oft
    that a terrible oath, with a swaggering accent sharply twang'd
    off, gives manhood more approbation than ever proof itself would
    have earn'd him. Away.
  AGUECHEEK. Nay, let me alone for swearing.                Exit
  SIR TOBY. Now will not I deliver his letter; for the behaviour of
    the young gentleman gives him out to be of good capacity and
    breeding; his employment between his lord and my niece confirms
    no less. Therefore this letter, being so excellently ignorant,
    will breed no terror in the youth: he will find it comes from a
    clodpole. But, sir, I will deliver his challenge by word of
    mouth, set upon Aguecheek notable report of valour, and drive the
    gentleman- as know his youth will aptly receive it- into a most
    hideous opinion of his rage, skill, fury, and impetuosity. This
    will so fright them both that they will kill one another by the
    look, like cockatrices.

                Re-enter OLIVIA. With VIOLA

  FABIAN. Here he comes with your niece; give them way till he take
    leave, and presently after him.
  SIR TOBY. I will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a
    challenge.
                              Exeunt SIR TOBY, FABIAN, and MARIA
  OLIVIA. I have said too much unto a heart of stone,
    And laid mine honour too unchary out;
    There's something in me that reproves my fault;
    But such a headstrong potent fault it is
    That it but mocks reproof.
  VIOLA. With the same haviour that your passion bears
    Goes on my master's griefs.
  OLIVIA. Here, wear this jewel for me; 'tis my picture.
    Refuse it not; it hath no tongue to vex you.
    And I beseech you come again to-morrow.
    What shall you ask of me that I'll deny,
    That honour sav'd may upon asking give?
  VIOLA. Nothing but this- your true love for my master.
  OLIVIA. How with mine honour may I give him that
    Which I have given to you?
  VIOLA. I will acquit you.
  OLIVIA. Well, come again to-morrow. Fare thee well;
    A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell.           Exit

              Re-enter SIR TOBY and SIR FABIAN

  SIR TOBY. Gentleman, God save thee.
  VIOLA. And you, sir.
  SIR TOBY. That defence thou hast, betake thee tot. Of what nature
    the wrongs are thou hast done him, I know not; but thy
    intercepter, full of despite, bloody as the hunter, attends
    thee at the orchard end. Dismount thy tuck, be yare in thy
    preparation, for thy assailant is quick, skilful, and deadly.
  VIOLA. You mistake, sir; I am sure no man hath any quarrel to me;
    my remembrance is very free and clear from any image of offence
    done to any man.
  SIR TOBY. You'll find it otherwise, I assure you; therefore, if you
    hold your life at any price, betake you to your guard; for your
    opposite hath in him what youth, strength, skill, and wrath, can
    furnish man withal.
  VIOLA. I pray you, sir, what is he?
  SIR TOBY. He is knight, dubb'd with unhatch'd rapier and on carpet
    consideration; but he is a devil in private brawl. Souls and
    bodies hath he divorc'd three; and his incensement at this moment
    is so implacable that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of
    death and sepulchre. Hob-nob is his word- give't or take't.
  VIOLA. I will return again into the house and desire some conduct
    of the lady. I am no fighter. I have heard of some kind of men
    that put quarrels purposely on others to taste their valour;
    belike this is a man of that quirk.
  SIR TOBY. Sir, no; his indignation derives itself out of a very
    competent injury; therefore, get you on and give him his desire.
    Back you shall not to the house, unless you undertake that with
    me which with as much safety you might answer him; therefore on,
    or strip your sword stark naked; for meddle you must, that's
    certain, or forswear to wear iron about you.
  VIOLA. This is as uncivil as strange. I beseech you do me this
    courteous office as to know of the knight what my offence to him
    is: it is something of my negligence, nothing of my purpose.
  SIR TOBY. I Will do so. Signior Fabian, stay you by this gentleman
    till my return.                                Exit SIR TOBY
  VIOLA. Pray you, sir, do you know of this matter?
  FABIAN. I know the knight is incens'd against you, even to a mortal
    arbitrement; but nothing of the circumstance more.
  VIOLA. I beseech you, what manner of man is he?
  FABIAN. Nothing of that wonderful promise, to read him by his form,
    as you are like to find him in the proof of his valour. He is
    indeed, sir, the most skilful, bloody, and fatal opposite that
    you could possibly have found in any part of Illyria. Will you
    walk towards him? I will make your peace with him if I can.
  VIOLA. I shall be much bound to you for't. I am one that would
    rather go with sir priest than sir knight. I care not who knows
    so much of my mettle.                                 Exeunt

                Re-enter SIR TOBY With SIR ANDREW

  SIR TOBY. Why, man, he's a very devil; I have not seen such a
    firago. I had a pass with him, rapier, scabbard, and all, and he
    gives me the stuck in with such a mortal motion that it is
    inevitable; and on the answer, he pays you as surely as your feet
    hit the ground they step on. They say he has been fencer to the
    Sophy.
  AGUECHEEK. Pox on't, I'll not meddle with him.
  SIR TOBY. Ay, but he will not now be pacified; Fabian can scarce
    hold him yonder.
  AGUECHEEK. Plague on't; an I thought he had been valiant, and so
    cunning in fence, I'd have seen him damn'd ere I'd have
    challeng'd him. Let him let the matter slip, and I'll give him
    my horse, grey Capilet.
  SIR TOBY. I'll make the motion. Stand here, make a good show on't;
    this shall end without the perdition of souls. [Aside] Marry,
    I'll ride your horse as well as I ride you.

              Re-enter FABIAN and VIOLA

    [To FABIAN] I have his horse to take up the quarrel; I have
    persuaded him the youth's a devil.
  FABIAN. [To SIR TOBY] He is as horribly conceited of him; and pants
   and looks pale, as if a bear were at his heels.
  SIR TOBY. [To VIOLA] There's no remedy, sir: he will fight with you
    for's oath sake. Marry, he hath better bethought him of his
    quarrel, and he finds that now scarce to be worth talking of.
    Therefore draw for the supportance of his vow; he protests he
    will not hurt you.
  VIOLA. [Aside] Pray God defend me! A little thing would make me
    tell them how much I lack of a man.
  FABIAN. Give ground if you see him furious.
  SIR TOBY. Come, Sir Andrew, there's no remedy; the gentleman will,
    for his honour's sake, have one bout with you; he cannot by the
    duello avoid it; but he has promis'd me, as he is a gentleman and
    a soldier, he will not hurt you. Come on; to't.
 