us, you yourself
    Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm,
    To sell and mart your offices for gold
    To undeservers.
  CASSIUS. I an itching palm?
    You know that you are Brutus that speaks this,
    Or, by the gods, this speech were else your last.
  BRUTUS. The name of Cassius honors this corruption,
    And chastisement doth therefore hide his head.
  CASSIUS. Chastisement?
  BRUTUS. Remember March, the ides of March remember.
    Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake?
    What villain touch'd his body, that did stab,
    And not for justice? What, shall one of us,
    That struck the foremost man of all this world
    But for supporting robbers, shall we now
    Contaminate our fingers with base bribes
    And sell the mighty space of our large honors
    For so much trash as may be grasped thus?
    I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon,
    Than such a Roman.
  CASSIUS. Brutus, bait not me,
    I'll not endure it. You forget yourself
    To hedge me in. I am a soldier, I,
    Older in practice, abler than yourself
    To make conditions.
  BRUTUS. Go to, you are not, Cassius.
  CASSIUS. I am.
  BRUTUS. I say you are not.
  CASSIUS. Urge me no more, I shall forget myself;
    Have mind upon your health, tempt me no farther.
  BRUTUS. Away, slight man!
  CASSIUS. Is't possible?
  BRUTUS. Hear me, for I will speak.
    Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
    Shall I be frighted when a madman stares?
  CASSIUS. O gods, ye gods! Must I endure all this?
  BRUTUS. All this? Ay, more. Fret till your proud heart break.
    Go show your slaves how choleric you are,
    And make your bondmen tremble. Must I bouge?
    Must I observe you? Must I stand and crouch
    Under your testy humor? By the gods,
    You shall digest the venom of your spleen,
    Though it do split you, for, from this day forth,
    I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter,
    When you are waspish.
  CASSIUS. Is it come to this?
  BRUTUS. You say you are a better soldier:
    Let it appear so, make your vaunting true,
    And it shall please me well. For mine own part,
    I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
  CASSIUS. You wrong me every way, you wrong me, Brutus.
    I said, an elder soldier, not a better.
    Did I say "better"?
  BRUTUS. If you did, I care not.
  CASSIUS. When Caesar lived, he durst not thus have moved me.
  BRUTUS. Peace, peace! You durst not so have tempted him.
  CASSIUS. I durst not?
  BRUTUS. No.
  CASSIUS. What, durst not tempt him?
  BRUTUS. For your life you durst not.
  CASSIUS. Do not presume too much upon my love;
    I may do that I shall be sorry for.
  BRUTUS. You have done that you should be sorry for.
    There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats,
    For I am arm'd so strong in honesty,
    That they pass by me as the idle wind
    Which I respect not. I did send to you
    For certain sums of gold, which you denied me,
    For I can raise no money by vile means.
    By heaven, I had rather coin my heart
    And drop my blood for drachmas than to wring
    From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash
    By any indirection. I did send
    To you for gold to pay my legions,
    Which you denied me. Was that done like Cassius?
    Should I have answer'd Caius Cassius so?
    When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous
    To lock such rascal counters from his friends,
    Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts,
    Dash him to pieces!
  CASSIUS. I denied you not.
  BRUTUS. You did.
  CASSIUS. I did not. He was but a fool
    That brought my answer back. Brutus hath rived my heart.
    A friend should bear his friend's infirmities,
    But Brutus makes mine greater than they are.
  BRUTUS. I do not, till you practise them on me.
  CASSIUS. You love me not.
  BRUTUS. I do not like your faults.
  CASSIUS. A friendly eye could never see such faults.
  BRUTUS. A flatterer's would not, though they do appear
    As huge as high Olympus.
  CASSIUS. Come, Antony, and young Octavius, come,
    Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius,
    For Cassius is aweary of the world:
    Hated by one he loves; braved by his brother;
    Check'd like a bondman; all his faults observed,
    Set in a notebook, learn'd and conn'd by rote,
    To cast into my teeth. O, I could weep
    My spirit from mine eyes! There is my dagger,
    And here my naked breast; within, a heart
    Dearer than Pluto's mine, richer than gold.
    If that thou best a Roman, take it forth;
    I, that denied thee gold, will give my heart.
    Strike, as thou didst at Caesar, for I know,
    When thou didst hate him worst, thou lovedst him better
    Than ever thou lovedst Cassius.
  BRUTUS. Sheathe your dagger.
    Be angry when you will, it shall have scope;
    Do what you will, dishonor shall be humor.
    O Cassius, you are yoked with a lamb,
    That carries anger as the flint bears fire,
    Who, much enforced, shows a hasty spark
    And straight is cold again.
  CASSIUS. Hath Cassius lived
    To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus,
    When grief and blood ill-temper'd vexeth him?
  BRUTUS. When I spoke that, I was ill-temper'd too.
  CASSIUS. Do you confess so much? Give me your hand.
  BRUTUS. And my heart too.
  CASSIUS. O Brutus!
  BRUTUS. What's the matter?
  CASSIUS. Have not you love enough to bear with me
    When that rash humor which my mother gave me
    Makes me forgetful?
  BRUTUS. Yes, Cassius, and from henceforth,
    When you are overearnest with your Brutus,
    He'll think your mother chides, and leave you so.
  POET. [Within.] Let me go in to see the generals.
    There is some grudge between 'em, 'tis not meet
    They be alone.
  LUCILIUS. [Within.] You shall not come to them.
  POET. [Within.] Nothing but death shall stay me.

      Enter Poet, followed by Lucilius, Titinius, and Lucius.

  CASSIUS. How now, what's the matter?
  POET. For shame, you generals! What do you mean?
    Love, and be friends, as two such men should be;
    For I have seen more years, I'm sure, than ye.
  CASSIUS. Ha, ha! How vilely doth this cynic rhyme!
  BRUTUS. Get you hence, sirrah; saucy fellow, hence!
  CASSIUS. Bear with him, Brutus; 'tis his fashion.
  BRUTUS. I'll know his humor when he knows his time.
    What should the wars do with these jigging fools?
    Companion, hence!
  CASSIUS. Away, away, be gone!                       Exit Poet.
  BRUTUS. Lucilius and Titinius, bid the commanders
    Prepare to lodge their companies tonight.
  CASSIUS. And come yourselves and bring Messala with you
    Immediately to us.             Exeunt Lucilius and Titinius.
  BRUTUS. Lucius, a bowl of wine!                   Exit Lucius.
  CASSIUS. I did not think you could have been so angry.
  BRUTUS. O Cassius, I am sick of many griefs.
  CASSIUS. Of your philosophy you make no use,
    If you give place to accidental evils.
  BRUTUS. No man bears sorrow better. Portia is dead.
  CASSIUS. Ha? Portia?
  BRUTUS. She is dead.
  CASSIUS. How 'scaped killing when I cross'd you so?
    O insupportable and touching loss!
    Upon what sickness?
  BRUTUS. Impatient of my absence,
    And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony
    Have made themselves so strong- for with her death
    That tidings came- with this she fell distract,
    And (her attendants absent) swallow'd fire.
  CASSIUS. And died so?
  BRUTUS. Even so.
  CASSIUS. O ye immortal gods!

               Re-enter Lucius, with wine and taper.

  BRUTUS. Speak no more of her. Give me a bowl of wine.
    In this I bury all unkindness, Cassius.              Drinks.
  CASSIUS. My heart is thirsty for that noble pledge.
  Fill, Lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup;
  I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love.               Drinks.
  BRUTUS. Come in, Titinius!                        Exit Lucius.

                 Re-enter Titinius, with Messala.

    Welcome, good Messala.
    Now sit we close about this taper here,
    And call in question our necessities.
  CASSIUS. Portia, art thou gone?
  BRUTUS. No more, I pray you.
    Messala, I have here received letters
    That young Octavius and Mark Antony
    Come down upon us with a mighty power,
    Bending their expedition toward Philippi.
  MESSALA. Myself have letters of the selfsame tenure.
  BRUTUS. With what addition?
  MESSALA. That by proscription and bills of outlawry
    Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus
    Have put to death an hundred senators.
  BRUTUS. There in our letters do not well agree;
    Mine speak of seventy senators that died
    By their proscriptions, Cicero being one.
  CASSIUS. Cicero one!
  MESSALA. Cicero is dead,
    And by that order of proscription.
    Had you your letters from your wife, my lord?
  BRUTUS. No, Messala.
  MESSALA. Nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
  BRUTUS. Nothing, Messala.
  MESSALA. That, methinks, is strange.
  BRUTUS. Why ask you? Hear you aught of her in yours?
  MESSALA. No, my lord.
  BRUTUS. Now, as you are a Roman, tell me true.
  MESSALA. Then like a Roman bear the truth I tell:
    For certain she is dead, and by strange manner.
  BRUTUS. Why, farewell, Portia. W