  CLOWN. I think his soul is in hell, madonna.
  OLIVIA. I know his soul is in heaven, fool.
  CLOWN. The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother's soul
    being in heaven. Take away the fool, gentlemen.
  OLIVIA. What think you of this fool, Malvolio? Doth he not mend?
  MALVOLIO. Yes, and shall do, till the pangs of death shake him.
    Infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make the better fool.
  CLOWN. God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for the better
    increasing your folly! Sir Toby will be sworn that I am no fox;
    but he will not pass his word for twopence that you are no fool.
  OLIVIA. How say you to that, Malvolio?
  MALVOLIO. I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a barren
    rascal; I saw him put down the other day with an ordinary fool
    that has no more brain than a stone. Look you now, he's out of
    his guard already; unless you laugh and minister occasion to him,
    he is gagg'd. I protest I take these wise men that crow so at
    these set kind of fools no better than the fools' zanies.
  OLIVIA. O, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and taste with a
    distemper'd appetite. To be generous, guiltless, and of free
    disposition, is to take those things for bird-bolts that you deem
    cannon bullets. There is no slander in an allow'd fool, though he
    do nothing but rail; nor no railing in known discreet man, though
    he do nothing but reprove.
  CLOWN. Now Mercury endue thee with leasing, for thou speak'st well
    of fools!

                             Re-enter MARIA

  MARIA. Madam, there is at the gate a young gentleman much desires
    to speak with you.
  OLIVIA. From the Count Orsino, is it?
  MARIA. I know not, madam; 'tis a fair young man, and well attended.
  OLIVIA. Who of my people hold him in delay?
  MARIA. Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.
  OLIVIA. Fetch him off, I pray you; he speaks nothing but madman.
    Fie on him! [Exit MARIA] Go you, Malvolio: if it be a suit from
    the Count, I am sick, or not at home- what you will to dismiss
    it. [Exit MALVOLIO] Now you see, sir, how your fooling grows old,
    and people dislike it.
  CLOWN. Thou hast spoke for us, madonna, as if thy eldest son should
    be a fool; whose skull Jove cram with brains! For- here he comes-
    one of thy kin has a most weak pia mater.

                         Enter SIR TOBY

  OLIVIA. By mine honour, half drunk! What is he at the gate, cousin?
  SIR TOBY. A gentleman.
  OLIVIA. A gentleman! What gentleman?
  SIR TOBY. 'Tis a gentleman here. [Hiccups] A plague o' these
    pickle-herring! How now, sot!
  CLOWN. Good Sir Toby!
  OLIVIA. Cousin, cousin, how have you come so early by this
    lethargy?
  SIR TOBY. Lechery! I defy lechery. There's one at the gate.
  OLIVIA. Ay, marry; what is he?
  SIR TOBY. Let him be the devil an he will, I care not; give me
    faith, say I. Well, it's all one.                       Exit
  OLIVIA. What's a drunken man like, fool?
  CLOWN. Like a drown'd man, a fool, and a madma