sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there was a star
    danc'd, and under that was I born. Cousins, God give you joy!
  Leon. Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
  Beat. I cry you mercy, uncle, By your Grace's pardon.    Exit.
  Pedro. By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.
  Leon. There's little of the melancholy element in her, my lord. She
    is never sad but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then; for I
    have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamt of unhappiness
    and wak'd herself with laughing.
  Pedro. She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
  Leon. O, by no means! She mocks all her wooers out of suit.
  Pedro. She were an excellent wife for Benedick.
  Leon. O Lord, my lord! if they were but a week married, they would
    talk themselves mad.
  Pedro. County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?
  Claud. To-morrow, my lord. Time goes on crutches till love have all
    his rites.
  Leon. Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just
    sevennight; and a time too brief too, to have all things answer
    my mind.
  Pedro. Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing;
    but I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us.
    I will in the interim undertake one of Hercules' labours, which
    is, to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a
    mountain of affection th' one with th' other. I would fain have
    it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it if you three will
    but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction.
  Leon. My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten nights'
    watchings.
  Claud. And I, my lord.
  Pedro. And you too, gentle Hero?
  Hero. I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my cousin to a
    good husband.
  Pedro. And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that I know.
    Thus far can I praise him: he is of a noble strain, of approved
    valour, and confirm'd honesty. I will teach you how to humour
    your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick; and I,
    [to Leonato and Claudio] with your two helps, will so practise on
    Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy
    stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this,
    Cupid is no longer an archer; his glory shall be ours, for we are
    the only love-gods. Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene II.
A hall in Leonato's house.

Enter [Don] John and Borachio.

  John. It is so. The Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of
    Leonato.
  Bora. Yea, my lord; but I can cross it.
  John. Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be med'cinable to me.
    I am sick in displeasure to him, and whatsoever comes athwart his
    affection ranges evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this
    marriage?
  Bora. Not honestly, my lord, but so covertly that no dishonesty
    shall appear in me.
  John. Show me briefly how.
  Bora. I think I told your lordship, a year since, how much I am in
    the favour of Margaret, the waiting gentlewoman to Hero.
  John. I remember.
  Bora. I can, at any unseasonable instant of the night, appoint her
    to look out at her lady's chamber window.
  John. What life is in that to be the death of this marriage?
  Bora. The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to the
    Prince your brother; spare not to tell him that he hath wronged
    his honour in marrying the renowned Claudio (whose estimation do
    you mightily hold up) to a contaminated stale, such a one as
    Hero.
  John. What proof shall I make of that?
  Bora. Proof enough to misuse the Prince, to vex Claudio, to undo
    Hero, and kill Leonato. Look you for any other issue?
  John. Only to despite them I will endeavour anything.
  Bora. Go then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count
    Claudio alone; tell them that you know that Hero loves me; intend
    a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio, as--in love of
    your brother's honour, who hath made this match, and his friend's
    reputation, who is thus like to be cozen'd with the semblance of
    a maid--that you have discover'd thus. They will scarcely believe
    this without trial. Offer them instances; which shall bear no
    less likelihood than to see me at her chamber window, hear me
    call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me Claudio; and bring them
    to see this the very night before the intended wedding (for in
    the meantime I will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be
    absent) and there shall appear such seeming truth of Hero's
    disloyalty that jealousy shall be call'd assurance and all the
    preparation overthrown.
  John. Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put it in
    practice. Be cunning in the working this, and thy fee is a
    thousand ducats.
  Bora. Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning shall not
    shame me.
  John. I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene III.
Leonato's orchard.

Enter Benedick alone.

  Bene. Boy!

                    [Enter Boy.]

  Boy. Signior?
  Bene. In my chamber window lies a book. Bring it hither to me in
    the orchard.
  Boy. I am here already, sir.
  Bene. I know that, but I would have thee hence and here again.
    (Exit Boy.) I do much wonder that one man, seeing how much
    another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviours to love,
    will, after he hath laugh'd at such shallow follies in others,
    become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love; and such
    a man is Claudio. I have known when there was no music with him
    but the drum and the fife; and now had he rather hear the tabor
    and the pipe. I have known when he would have walk'd ten mile
    afoot to see a good armour; and now will he lie ten nights awake
    carving the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to speak plain
    and to the purpose, like an honest man and a soldier; and now is
    he turn'd orthography; his words are a very fantastical banquet--
    just so many strange dishes. May I be so converted and see with
    these eyes? I cannot tell; I think not. I will not be sworn but
    love may transform me to an oyster; but I'll take my oath on it,
    till he have made an oyster of me he shall never make me such a
    fool. One woman is fair, yet I am well; another is wise, yet I am
    well; another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all graces be in
    one woman, one woman shall not come in my grace. Rich she shall
    be, that's certain; wise, or I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never
    cheapen her; fair, or I'll never look on her; mild, or come not
    near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good discourse, an
    excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what colour it
    please God. Ha, the Prince and Monsieur Love! I will hide me in
    the arbour.                                         [Hides.]

              Enter Don Pedro, Leonato, Claudio.
                      Music [within].

  Pedro. Come, shall we hear this music?
  Claud. Yea, my good lord. How still the evening is,
    As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony!
  Pedro. See you where Benedick hath hid himself?
  Claud. O, very well, my lord. The music ended,
    We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth.

                   Enter Balthasar with Music.

  Pedro. Come, Balthasar, we'll hear that song again.
  Balth. O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice
    To slander music any more than once.
  Pedro. It is the witness still of excellency
    To put a strange face on his own perfection.
    I pray thee sing, and let me woo no more.
  Balth. Because you talk of wooing, I will sing,
    Since many a wooer doth commence his suit
    To her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes,
    Yet will he swear he loves.
  Pedro. Nay, pray thee come;
    Or if thou wilt hold longer argument,
    Do it in notes.
  Balth. Note this before my notes:
    There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.
  Pedro. Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks!
    Note notes, forsooth, and nothing!                  [Music.]
  Bene. [aside] Now divine air! Now is his soul ravish'd! Is it not
    strange that sheep's guts should hale souls out of men's bodies?
    Well, a horn for my money, when all's done.
                                              [Balthasar sings.]
                      The Song.

        Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more!
          Men were deceivers ever,
        One foot in sea, and one on shore;
          To one thing constant never.
            Then sigh not so,
            But let them go,
          And be you blithe and bonny,
        Converting all your sounds of woe
          Into Hey nonny, nonny.

        Sing no more ditties, sing no moe,
          Of dumps so dull and heavy!
        The fraud of men was ever so,
          Since summer first was leavy.
            Then sigh not so, &c.

  Pedro. By my troth, a good song.
  Balth. And an ill singer, my lord.
  Pedro. Ha, no, no, faith! Thou sing'st well enough for a shift.
  Bene. [aside] An he had been a dog that should have howl'd thus,
    they would have hang'd him; and I pray God his bad voice bode no
    mischief. I had as live have heard the night raven, come what
    plague could have come after it.
  Pedro. Yea, marry. Dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee get us
    some excellent music; for to-morrow night we would have it at the
    Lady Hero's chamber window.
  Balth. The best I can, my lord.
  Pedro. Do so. Farewell.
                                Exit Balthasar [with Musicians].
    Come hit