d here that Don Pedro hath bestowed much honour on
    a young Florentine called Claudio.
  Mess. Much deserv'd on his part, and equally rememb'red by Don
    Pedro. He hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age, doing
    in the figure of a lamb the feats of a lion. He hath indeed
    better bett'red expectation than you must expect of me to tell
    you how.
  Leon. He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it.
  Mess. I have already delivered him letters, and there appears much
    joy in him; even so much that joy could not show itself modest
    enough without a badge of bitterness.
  Leon. Did he break out into tears?
  Mess. In great measure.
  Leon. A kind overflow of kindness. There are no faces truer than
    those that are so wash'd. How much better is it to weep at joy
    than to joy at weeping!
  Beat. I pray you, is Signior Mountanto return'd from the wars or no?
  Mess. I know none of that name, lady. There was none such in the
    army of any sort.
  Leon. What is he that you ask for, niece?
  Hero. My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
  Mess. O, he's return'd, and as pleasant as ever he was.
  Beat. He set up his bills here in Messina and challeng'd Cupid at
    the flight, and my uncle's fool, reading the challenge,
    subscrib'd for Cupid and challeng'd him at the burbolt. I pray
    you, how many hath he kill'd and eaten in these wars? But how
    many hath he kill'd? For indeed I promised to eat all of his
    killing.
  Leon. Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much; but he'll
    be meet with you, I doubt it not.
  Mess. He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
  Beat. You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it. He is a
    very valiant trencherman; he hath an excellent stomach.
  Mess. And a good soldier too, lady.
  Beat. And a good soldier to a lady; but what is he to a lord?
  Mess. A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuff'd with all honourable
    virtues.
  Beat. It is so indeed. He is no less than a stuff'd man; but for
    the stuffing--well, we are all mortal.
  Leon. You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a kind of merry
    war betwixt Signior Benedick and her. They never meet but there's
    a skirmish of wit between them.
  Beat. Alas, he gets nothing by that! In our last conflict four of
    his five wits went halting off, and now is the whole man govern'd
    with one; so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let
    him bear it for a difference between himself and his horse; for
    it is all the wealth that he hath left to be known a reasonable
    creature. Who is his companion now? He hath every month a new
    sworn brother.
  Mess. Is't possible?
  Beat. Very easily possible. He wears his faith but as the fashion
    of his hat; it ever changes with the next block.
  Mess. I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.
  Beat. No. An he were, I would burn my study. But I pray you, who is
    his companion? Is there no young squarer now that will make a
    voyage with him to the devil?
  Mess. He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
  Beat. O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease! He is sooner
    caught than the pestilence, and the taker runs presently mad. God
    help the noble Claudio! If he have caught the Benedick, it will
    cost him a thousand pound ere 'a be cured.
  Mess. I will hold friends with you, lady.
  Beat. Do, good friend.
  Leon. You will never run mad, niece.
  Beat. No, not till a hot January.
  Mess. Don Pedro is approach'd.

  Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, Balthasar, and John the Bastard.

  Pedro. Good Signior Leonato, are you come to meet your trouble? The
    fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it.
  Leon. Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your Grace;
    for trouble being gone, comfort should remain; but when you depart
    from me, sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave.
  Pedro. You embrace your charge too willingly. I think this is your
    daughter.
  Leon. Her mother hath many times told me so.
  Bene. Were you in doubt, sir, that you ask'd her?
  Leon. Signior Benedick, no; for then were you a child.
  Pedro. You have it full, Benedick. We may guess by this what you
    are, being a man. Truly the lady fathers herself. Be happy, lady;
    for you are like an honourable father.
  Bene. If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not have his head
    on her shoulders for all Messina, as like him as she is.
  Beat. I wonder that you will still be talking, Signior Benedick.
    Nobody marks you.
  Bene. What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living?
  Beat. Is it possible Disdain should die while she hath such meet
    food to feed it as Signior Benedick? Courtesy itself must convert
    to disdain if you come in her presence.
  Bene. Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I am loved of
    all ladies, only you excepted; and I would I could find in my
    heart that I had not a hard heart, for truly I love none.
  Beat. A dear happiness to women! They would else have been troubled
    with a pernicious suitor. I thank God and my cold blood, I am of
    your humour for that. I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow
    than a man swear he loves me.
  Bene. God keep your ladyship still in that mind! So some gentleman
    or other shall scape a predestinate scratch'd face.
  Beat. Scratching could not make it worse an 'twere such a face as
    yours were.
  Bene. Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.
  Beat. A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.
  Bene. I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good a
    continuer. But keep your way, a God's name! I have done.
  Beat. You always end with a jade's trick. I know you of old.
  Pedro. That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio and Signior
    Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all. I tell him
    we shall stay here at the least a month, and he heartly prays
    some occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no
    hypocrite, but prays from his heart.
  Leon. If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn. [To Don
    John] Let me bid you welcome, my lord. Being reconciled to the
    Prince your brother, I owe you all duty.
  John. I thank you. I am not of many words, but I thank you.
  Leon. Please it your Grace lead on?
  Pedro. Your hand, Leonato. We will go together.
                            Exeunt. Manent Benedick and Claudio.
  Claud. Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
  Bene. I noted her not, but I look'd on her.
  Claud. Is she not a modest young lady?
  Bene. Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for my simple
    true judgment? or would you have me speak after my custom, as
    being a professed tyrant to their sex?
  Claud. No. I pray thee speak in sober judgment.
  Bene. Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high praise,
    too brown for a fair praise, and too little for a great praise.
    Only this commendation I can afford her, that were she other
    than she is, she were unhandsome, and being no other but as she
    is, I do not like her.
  Claud. Thou thinkest I am in sport. I pray thee tell me truly how
    thou lik'st her.
  Bene. Would you buy her, that you enquire after her?
  Claud. Can the world buy such a jewel?
  Bene. Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this with a sad
    brow? or do you play the flouting Jack, to tell us Cupid is a
    good hare-finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter? Come, in what key
    shall a man take you to go in the song?
  Claud. In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I look'd on.
  Bene. I can see yet without spectacles, and I see no such matter.
    There's her cousin, an she were not possess'd with a fury,exceeds
    her as much in beauty as the first of May doth the last of
    December. But I hope you have no intent to turn husband, have
    you?
  Claud. I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the
    contrary, if Hero would be my wife.
  Bene. Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world one man but
    he will wear his cap with suspicion? Shall I never see a
    bachelor of threescore again? Go to, i' faith! An thou wilt needs
    thrust thy neck into a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away
    Sundays.

                       Enter Don Pedro.

    Look! Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
  Pedro. What secret hath held you here, that you followed not to
    Leonato's?
  Bene. I would your Grace would constrain me to tell.
  Pedro. I charge thee on thy allegiance.
  Bene. You hear, Count Claudio. I can be secret as a dumb man, I
    would have you think so; but, on my allegiance--mark you this-on
    my allegiance! he is in love. With who? Now that is your Grace's
    part. Mark how short his answer is: With Hero, Leonato's short
    daughter.
  Claud. If this were so, so were it utt'red.
  Bene. Like the old tale, my lord: 'It is not so, nor 'twas not so;
    but indeed, God forbid it should be so!'
  Claud. If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it should be
    otherwise.
  Pedro. Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.
  Claud. You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
  Pedro. By my troth, I speak my thought.
  Claud. And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine.
  Bene. And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine.
  Claud. That I love her, I feel.
  Pedro. That she is worthy, I know.
  Bene. That I neither feel how she should be loved, nor know how she
    should be worthy, is the opinion that fire cannot melt out of me.
    I will die in it at the stake.
  Pedro. Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of
    beauty.
  Claud. And never co