ce.

               [Beatrice hides in the arbour].

  Urs. The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish
    Cut with her golden oars the silver stream
    And greedily devour the treacherous bait.
    So angle we for Beatrice, who even now
    Is couched in the woodbine coverture.
    Fear you not my part of the dialogue.
  Hero. Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing
    Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.
                                     [They approach the arbour.]
    No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful.
    I know her spirits are as coy and wild
    As haggards of the rock.
  Urs. But are you sure
    That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?
  Hero. So says the Prince, and my new-trothed lord.
  Urs. And did they bid you tell her of it, madam?
  Hero. They did entreat me to acquaint her of it;
    But I persuaded them, if they lov'd Benedick,
    To wish him wrestle with affection
    And never to let Beatrice know of it.
  Urs. Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman
    Deserve as full, as fortunate a bed
    As ever Beatrice shall couch upon?
  Hero. O god of love! I know he doth deserve
    As much as may be yielded to a man:
    But Nature never fram'd a woman's heart
    Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice.
    Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
    Misprizing what they look on; and her wit
    Values itself so highly that to her
    All matter else seems weak. She cannot love,
    Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
    She is so self-endeared.
  Urs. Sure I think so;
    And therefore certainly it were not good
    She knew his love, lest she'll make sport at it.
  Hero. Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man,
    How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featur'd,
    But she would spell him backward. If fair-fac'd,
    She would swear the gentleman should be her sister;
    If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antic,
    Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed;
    If low, an agate very vilely cut;
    If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds;
    If silent, why, a block moved with none.
    So turns she every man the wrong side out
    And never gives to truth and virtue that
    Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
  Urs. Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
  Hero. No, not to be so odd, and from all fashions,
    As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable.
    But who dare tell her so? If I should speak,
    She would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me
    Out of myself, press me to death with wit!
    Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire,
    Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly.
    It were a better death than die with mocks,
    Which is as bad as die with tickling.
  Urs. Yet tell her of it. Hear what she will say.
  Hero. No; rather I will go to Benedick
    And counsel him to fight against his passion.
    And truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
    To stain my cousin with. One doth not know
    How much an ill word may empoison liking.
  Urs. O, do not do your cousin such a wrong!
    She cannot be so much without true judgment
    (Having so swift and excellent a wit
    As she is priz'd to have) as to refuse
    So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.
  Hero. He is the only man of Italy,
    Always excepted my dear Claudio.
  Urs. I pray you be not angry with me, madam,
    Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick,
    For shape, for bearing, argument, and valour,
    Goes foremost in report through Italy.
  Hero. Indeed he hath an excellent good name.
  Urs. His excellence did earn it ere he had it.
    When are you married, madam?
  Hero. Why, every day to-morrow! Come, go in.
    I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel
    Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
                                               [They walk away.]
  Urs. She's lim'd, I warrant you! We have caught her, madam.
  Hero. If it prove so, then loving goes by haps;
    Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
                                       Exeunt [Hero and Ursula].

    [Beatrice advances from the arbour.]

  Beat. What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true?
    Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much?
    Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu!
    No glory lives behind the back of such.
    And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
    Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand.
    If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
    To bind our loves up in a holy band;
    For others say thou dost deserve, and I
    Believe it better than reportingly.                    Exit.




Scene II.
A room in Leonato's house.

Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Leonato.

  Pedro. I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go
    I toward Arragon.
  Claud. I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll vouchsafe me.
  Pedro. Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your
    marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear
    it. I will only be bold with Benedick for his company; for, from
    the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all mirth.
    He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bowstring, and the little
    hangman dare not shoot at him. He hath a heart as sound as a
    bell; and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks,
    his tongue speaks.
  Bene. Gallants, I am not as I have been.
  Leon. So say I. Methinks you are sadder.
  Claud. I hope he be in love.
  Pedro. Hang him, truant! There's no true drop of blood in him to be
    truly touch'd with love. If he be sad, he wants money.
  Bene. I have the toothache.
  Pedro. Draw it.
  Bene. Hang it!
  Claud. You must hang it first and draw it afterwards.
  Pedro. What? sigh for the toothache?
  Leon. Where is but a humour or a worm.
  Bene. Well, every one can master a grief but he that has it.
  Claud. Yet say I he is in love.
  Pedro. There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy
    that he hath to strange disguises; as to be a Dutchman to-day, a
    Frenchman to-morrow; or in the shape of two countries at once, as
    a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from
    the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy to this
    foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you
    would have it appear he is.
  Claud. If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing
    old signs. 'A brushes his hat o' mornings. What should that bode?
  Pedro. Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
  Claud. No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him, and the
     old ornament of his cheek hath already stuff'd tennis balls.
  Leon. Indeed he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.
  Pedro. Nay, 'a rubs himself with civet. Can you smell him out by
    that?
  Claud. That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
  Pedro. The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
  Claud. And when was he wont to wash his face?
  Pedro. Yea, or to paint himself? for the which I hear what they say
    of him.
  Claud. Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is new-crept into a
    lutestring, and now govern'd by stops.
  Pedro. Indeed that tells a heavy tale for him. Conclude, conclude,
    he is in love.
  Claud. Nay, but I know who loves him.
  Pedro. That would I know too. I warrant, one that knows him not.
  Claud. Yes, and his ill conditions; and in despite of all, dies for
    him.
  Pedro. She shall be buried with her face upwards.
  Bene. Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old signior, walk
    aside with me. I have studied eight or nine wise words to speak
    to you, which these hobby-horses must not hear.
                                  [Exeunt Benedick and Leonato.]
  Pedro. For my life, to break with him about Beatrice!
  Claud. 'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this played their
    parts with Beatrice, and then the two bears will not bite one
    another when they meet.

                 Enter John the Bastard.

  John. My lord and brother, God save you.
  Pedro. Good den, brother.
  John. If your leisure serv'd, I would speak with you.
  Pedro. In private?
  John. If it please you. Yet Count Claudio may hear, for what I
    would speak of concerns him.
  Pedro. What's the matter?
  John. [to Claudio] Means your lordship to be married tomorrow?
  Pedro. You know he does.
  John. I know not that, when he knows what I know.
  Claud. If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
  John. You may think I love you not. Let that appear hereafter, and
    aim better at me by that I now will manifest. For my brother, I
    think he holds you well and in dearness of heart hath holp to
    effect your ensuing marriage--surely suit ill spent and labour
    ill bestowed!
  Pedro. Why, what's the matter?
  John. I came hither to tell you, and, circumstances short'ned (for
    she has been too long a-talking of), the lady is disloyal.
  Claud. Who? Hero?
  John. Even she--Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero.
  Claud. Disloyal?
  John. The word is too good to paint out her wickedness. I could say
    she were worse; think you of a worse title, and I will fit her to
    it. Wonder not till further warrant. Go but with me to-night, you
    shall see her chamber window ent'red, even the night before her
    wedding day. If you love her then, to-morrow wed her. But it
    would better fit your honour to change your mind.
  Claud. May this be so?
  Pedro. I will not think it.
  John. If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you
    know. If you will follow me, I will show you enough; and when you
    have seen more and heard more, proceed accordingly.
  Claud. If I see anything to-night why I should not marry her
    to-morrow, in the congregation where I should wed, there will I
    shame her.
  Pedro. And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with
    thee to disgrace her.
  John. I will disparage her no farther till you are my witnesses.
    Bear it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue show itself.
  Pedro. O day untowardly turned!
  Claud. O mischief strangely thwarting!
  John. O plague right well prevented!
    So will you say when you have seen the Sequel.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene III.
A street.

Enter Dogberry and his compartner [Verges], with the Watch.

  Dog. Are you good men and true?
  Verg. Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer salvation,
    body and soul.
  Dog. Nay, that were a punishment too good for them if they should
    have any allegiance in them, being chosen for the Prince's watch.
  Verg. Well, give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry.
  Dog. First, who think you the most desartless man to be constable?
  1. Watch. Hugh Oatcake, sir, or George Seacoal; for they can write
    and read.
  Dog. Come hither, neighbour Seacoal. God hath bless'd you with a
    good name. To be a well-favoured man is the ift of fortune, but
    to write and read comes by nature.
  2. Watch. Both which, Master Constable--
  Dog. You have. I knew it would be your answer. Well, for your
    favour, sir, why, give God thanks and make no boast of it; and
    for your writing and reading, let that appear when there is no
    need of such vanity. You are thought here to be the most
    senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch. Therefore
    bear you the lanthorn. This is your charge: you shall comprehend
    all vagrom men; you are to bid any man stand, in the Prince's
    name.
  2. Watch. How if 'a will not stand?
  Dog. Why then, take no note of him, but let him go, and presently
    call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of
    a knave.
  Verg. If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the
    Prince's subjects.
  Dog. True, and they are to meddle with none but the Prince's
    subjects. You shall also make no noise in the streets; for for
    the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable, and not to be
    endured.
  2. Watch. We will rather sleep than talk. We know what belongs to
    a watch.
  Dog. Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman, for I
    cannot see how sleeping should offend. Only have a care that your
    bills be not stol'n. Well, you are to call at all the alehouses
    and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
  2. Watch. How if they will not?
  Dog. Why then, let them alone till they are sober. If they make you
    not then the better answer, You may say they are not the men you
    took them for.
  2. Watch. Well, sir.
  Dog. If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue of your
    office, to be no true man; and for such kind of men, the less you
    meddle or make with them, why, the more your honesty.
  2. Watch. If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay hands on
    him?
  Dog. Truly, by your office you may; but I think they that touch
    pitch will be defil'd. The most peaceable way for you, if you do
    take a thief, is to let him show himself what he is, and steal
    out of your company.
  Verg. You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
  Dog. Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who
    hath any honesty in him.
  Verg. If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call to the
    nurse and bid her still it.
  2. Watch. How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?
  Dog. Why then, depart in peace and let the child wake her with
    crying; for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baes will
    never answer a calf when he bleats.
  Verg. 'Tis very true.
  Dog. This is the end of the charge: you, constable, are to present
    the Prince's own person. If you meet the Prince in the night,
    you may stay him.
  Verg. Nay, by'r lady, that I think 'a cannot.
  Dog. Five shillings to one on't with any man that knows the
    statutes, he may stay him! Marry, not without the Prince be
    willing; for indeed the watch ought to offend no man, and it is
    an offence to stay a man against his will.
  Verg. By'r lady, I think it be so.
  Dog. Ha, ah, ha! Well, masters, good night. An there be any matter
    of weight chances, call up me. Keep your fellows' counsels and
    your own, and good night. Come, neighbour.
  2. Watch. Well, masters, we hear our charge. Let us go sit here
    upon the church bench till two, and then all to bed.
  Dog. One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch about
    Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being there tomorrow,
    there is a great coil to-night. Adieu. Be vigitant, I beseech
    you.                           Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].

                     Enter Borachio and Conrade.

  Bora. What, Conrade!
  2. Watch. [aside] Peace! stir not!
  Bora. Conrade, I say!
  Con. Here, man. I am at thy elbow.
  Bora. Mass, and my elbow itch'd! I thought there would a scab
    follow.
  Con. I will owe thee an answer for that; and now forward with thy
    tale.
  Bora. Stand thee close then under this penthouse, for it drizzles
    rain, and I will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee.
  2. Watch. [aside] Some treason, masters. Yet stand close.
  Bora. Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
  Con. Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
  Bora. Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villany
    should be so rich; for when rich villains have need of poor ones,
    poor ones may make what price they will.
  Con. I wonder at it.
  Bora. That shows thou art unconfirm'd. Thou knowest that the
    fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to a man.
  Con. Yes, it is apparel.
  Bora. I mean the fashion.
  Con. Yes, the fashion is the fashion.
  Bora. Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But seest thou
    not what a deformed thief this fashion is?
  2. Watch. [aside] I know that Deformed. 'A bas been a vile thief
    this seven year; 'a goes up and down like a gentleman. I remember
    his name.
  Bora. Didst thou not hear somebody?
  Con. No; 'twas the vane on the house.
  Bora. Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this fashion is?
    how giddily 'a turns about all the hot-bloods between fourteen
    and five-and-thirty? sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's
    soldiers in the reechy painting, sometime like god Bel's priests
    in the old church window, sometime like the shaven Hercules in
    the smirch'd worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as
    massy as his club?
  Con. All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears out more
    apparel than the man. But art not thou thyself giddy with the
    fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling
    me of the fashion?
  Bora. Not so neither. But know that I have to-night wooed Margaret,
    the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero. She leans me
    out at her mistress' chamber window, bids me a thousand times
    good night--I tell this tale vilely; I should first tell thee how
    the Prince, Claudio and my master, planted and placed and
    possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orchard this
    amiable encounter.
  Con. And thought they Margaret was Hero?
  Bora. Two of them did, the Prince and Claudio; but the devil my
    master knew she was Margaret; and partly by his oaths, which
    first possess'd them, partly by the dark night, which did deceive
    them, but chiefly by my villany, which did confirm any slander
    that Don John had made, away went Claudio enrag'd; swore he would
    meet her, as he was appointed, next morning at the temple, and
    there, before the whole congregation, shame her with what he saw
    o'ernight and send her home again without a husband.
  2. Watch. We charge you in the Prince's name stand!
  1. Watch. Call up the right Master Constable. We have here
    recover'd the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known
    in the commonwealth.
  2. Watch. And one Deformed is one of them. I know him; 'a wears a
    lock.
  Con. Masters, masters--
  1. Watch. You'll be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you.
  Con. Masters