ave given
    largely to many to know what she would have given;
    briefly, I have pursu'd her as love hath pursued me; which
    hath been on the wing of all occasions. But whatsoever I
    have merited, either in my mind or in my means, meed, I
    am sure, I havu received none, unless experience be a jewel;
    that I have purchased at an infinite rate, and that hath
    taught me to say this:
    'Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues;
    Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.'
  FALSTAFF. Have you receiv'd no promise of satisfaction at
    her hands?
  FORD. Never.
  FALSTAFF. Have you importun'd her to such a purpose?
  FORD. Never.
    FALSTAFF. Of what quality was your love, then?
  FORD. Like a fair house built on another man's ground; so
    that I have lost my edifice by mistaking the place where
    erected it.
  FALSTAFF. To what purpose have you unfolded this to me?
  FORD. When I have told you that, I have told you all. Some
    say that though she appear honest to me, yet in other
    places she enlargeth her mirth so far that there is shrewd
    construction made of her. Now, Sir John, here is the heart
    of my purpose: you are a gentleman of excellent
    breeding, admirable discourse, of great admittance, authentic in
    your place and person, generally allow'd for your many
    war-like, courtlike, and learned preparations.
  FALSTAFF. O, sir!
  FORD. Believe it, for you know it. There is money; spend it,
    spend it; spend more; spend all I have; only give me so
    much of your time in exchange of it as to lay an amiable
    siege to the honesty of this Ford's wife; use your art of
    wooing, win her to consent to you; if any man may, you
    may as soon as any.
    FALSTAFF. Would it apply well to the vehemency of your
    affection, that I should win what you would enjoy?
    Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.
  FORD. O, understand my drift. She dwells so securely on the
    excellency of her honour th