 matter- proceed.
  ISABELLA. In brief- to set the needless process by,
    How I persuaded, how I pray'd, and kneel'd,
    How he refell'd me, and how I replied,
    For this was of much length- the vile conclusion
    I now begin with grief and shame to utter:
    He would not, but by gift of my chaste body
    To his concupiscible intemperate lust,
    Release my brother; and, after much debatement,
    My sisterly remorse confutes mine honour,
    And I did yield to him. But the next morn betimes,
    His purpose surfeiting, he sends a warrant
    For my poor brother's head.
  DUKE. This is most likely!
  ISABELLA. O that it were as like as it is true!
  DUKE. By heaven, fond wretch, thou know'st not what thou speak'st,
    Or else thou art suborn'd against his honour
    In hateful practice. First, his integrity
    Stands without blemish; next, it imports no reason
    That with such vehemency he should pursue
    Faults proper to himself. If he had so offended,
    He would have weigh'd thy brother by himself,
    And not have cut him off. Some one hath set you on;
    Confess the truth, and say by whose advice
    Thou cam'st here to complain.
  ISABELLA. And is this all?
    Then, O you blessed ministers above,
    Keep me in patience; and, with ripened time,
    Unfold the evil which is here wrapt up
    In countenance! Heaven shield your Grace from woe,
    As I, thus wrong'd, hence unbelieved go!
  DUKE. I know you'd fain be gone. An officer!
    To prison with her! Shall we tjus permit
    A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall
    On him so near us? This needs must be a practice.
    Who knew of your intent and coming hither?
  ISABELLA. One that I would were here, Friar Lodowick.
  DUKE. A ghostly father, belike. Who knows that Lodowick?
  LUCIO. My lord, I know him; 'tis a meddling friar.
    I do not like the man; had he been lay, my lord,
    For certain words he spake against your Grace
    In your retirement, I had swing'd him soundly.
  DUKE. Words against me