youth
    And made defeat of her virginity--
  Claud. I know what you would say. If I have known her,
    You will say she did embrace me as a husband,
    And so extenuate the forehand sin.
    No, Leonato,
    I never tempted her with word too large,
    But, as a brother to his sister, show'd
    Bashful sincerity and comely love.
  Hero. And seem'd I ever otherwise to you?
  Claud. Out on the seeming! I will write against it.
    You seem to me as Dian in her orb,
    As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown;
    But you are more intemperate in your blood
    Than Venus, or those pamp'red animals
    That rage in savage sensuality.
  Hero. Is my lord well that he doth speak so wide?
  Leon. Sweet Prince, why speak not you?
  Pedro. What should I speak?
    I stand dishonour'd that have gone about
    To link my dear friend to a common stale.
  Leon. Are these things spoken, or do I but dream?
  John. Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true.
  Bene. This looks not like a nuptial.
  Hero. 'True!' O God!
  Claud. Leonato, stand I here?
    Is this the Prince, Is this the Prince's brother?
    Is this face Hero's? Are our eyes our own?
  Leon. All this is so; but what of this, my lord?
  Claud. Let me but move one question to your daughter,
    And by that fatherly and kindly power
    That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
  Leon. I charge thee do so, as thou art my child.
  Hero. O, God defend me! How am I beset!
    What kind of catechising call you this?
  Claud. To make you answer truly to your name.
  Hero. Is it not Hero? Who can blot that name
    With any just reproach?
  Claud. Marry, that can Hero!
    Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue.
    What man was he talk'd with you yesternight,
    Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
    Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
  Hero. I talk'd with no man at that hour, my lord.
  Pedro. Why, then are you no maiden. Leonato,
    I am sorry you must hear. Upon my honour,
    Myself, my brother, and this grieved Count
    Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night
    Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window,
    Who hath indee