S cell

Enter FERDINAND, hearing a log

  FERDINAND. There be some sports are painful, and their
    labour
    Delight in them sets off; some kinds of baseness
    Are nobly undergone, and most poor matters
    Point to rich ends. This my mean task
    Would be as heavy to me as odious, but
    The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead,
    And makes my labours pleasures. O,`she is
    Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed;
    And he's compos'd of harshness. I must remove
    Some thousands of these logs, and pile them up,
    Upon a sore injunction; my sweet mistress
    Weeps when she sees me work, and says such baseness
    Had never like executor. I forget;
    But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours,
    Most busy, least when I do it.

        Enter MIRANDA; and PROSPERO at a distance, unseen

  MIRANDA. Alas, now; pray you,
    Work not so hard; I would the lightning had
    Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile.
    Pray, set it down and rest you; when this burns,
    'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father
    Is hard at study; pray, now, rest yourself;
    He's safe for these three hours.
  FERDINAND. O most dear mistress,
    The sun will set before I shall discharge
    What I must strive to do.
  MIRANDA. If you'll sit down,
    I'll bear your logs the while; pray give me that;
    I'll carry it to the pile.
  FERDINAND. No, precious creature;
    I had rather crack my sinews, break my back,
    Than you should such dishonour undergo,
    While I sit lazy by.
  MIRANDA. It would become me
    As well as it does you; and I should do it
    With much more ease; for my good will is to it,
    And yours it is against.
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Poor worm, thou art infected!
    This visitation shows it.
  MIRANDA. You look wearily.
  FERDINAND. No, noble mistress; 'tis fresh morning with me
    When you are by at night. I do beseech you,
    Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers,
    What is your name?
  MIRANDA. Miranda-O my father,
    I have broke your hest to say so!
  FERDINAND. Admir'd Miranda!
    What's dearest to the world! Full many a lady
    I have ey'd with best regard; and many a time
    Th' harmony of their tongues hath into bondage
    Brought my too diligent ear; for several virtues
    Have I lik'd several women, never any
    With so