
  ALONSO. I cannot too much muse
    Such shapes, such gesture, and such sound, expressing,
    Although they want the use of tongue, a kind
    Of excellent dumb discourse.
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Praise in departing.
  FRANCISCO. They vanish'd strangely.
  SEBASTIAN. No matter, since
    They have left their viands behind; for we have stomachs.
    Will't please you taste of what is here?
  ALONSO. Not I.
  GONZALO. Faith, sir, you need not fear. When we were boys,
    Who would believe that there were mountaineers,
    Dewlapp'd like bulls, whose throats had hanging at 'em
    Wallets of flesh? or that there were such men
    Whose heads stood in their breasts? which now we find
    Each putter-out of five for one will bring us
    Good warrant of.
  ALONSO. I will stand to, and feed,
    Although my last; no matter, since I feEl
    The best is past. Brother, my lord the Duke,
    Stand to, and do as we.

       Thunder and lightning. Enter ARIEL, like a harpy;
       claps his wings upon the table; and, with a quaint
                device, the banquet vanishes

  ARIEL. You are three men of sin, whom Destiny,
    That hath to instrument this lower world
    And what is in't, the never-surfeited sea
    Hath caus'd to belch up you; and on this island
    Where man doth not inhabit-you 'mongst men
    Being most unfit to live. I have made you mad;
    And even with such-like valour men hang and drown
    Their proper selves.
                     [ALONSO, SEBASTIAN etc., draw their swords]
    You fools! I and my fellows
    Are ministers of Fate; the elements
    Of whom your swords are temper'd may as well
    Wound the loud winds, or with bemock'd-at stabs
    Kill the still-closing waters, as diminish
    One dowle that's in my plume; my fellow-ministers
    Are like invulnerable. If you could hurt,
    Your swords are now too massy for your strengths
    And will not be uplifted. But remember-
    For that's my business to you-that you three
    From Milan did supplant good Prospero;
    Expos'd unto the sea, which hath requit it,
    Him, and his innocent child; for which foul deed
    The pow'rs, delaying, not forgetting, have
    Incens'd the seas and shores, yea, all the creatures,
    Against your peace. Thee of thy son, Alonso,
    They have bereft; and do pronounce by me
    Ling'ring perdition, worse than any death
    Can be at once, shall step b