, thou hast been all this while asleep;
    Farewell to thee too, Strato. Countrymen,
    My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
    I found no man but he was true to me.
    I shall have glory by this losing day,
    More than Octavius and Mark Antony
    By this vile conquest shall attain unto.
    So, fare you well at once, for Brutus' tongue
    Hath almost ended his life's history.
    Night hangs upon mine eyes, my bones would rest
    That have but labor'd to attain this hour.
                            Alarum. Cry within, "Fly, fly, fly!"
  CLITUS. Fly, my lord, fly.
  BRUTUS. Hence! I will follow.
                        Exeunt Clitus, Dardanius, and Volumnius.
    I prithee, Strato, stay thou by thy lord.
    Thou art a fellow of a good resðect;
    Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it.
    Hold then my sword, and turn away thy face,
    While I do run upon it. Wilt thou, Strato?
  STRATO. Give me your hand first. Fare you well, my lord.
  BRUTUS. Farewell, good Strato.              Runs on his sword.
    Caesar, now be still;
    I kill'd not thee with half so good a will.            Dies.

     Alarum. Retreat. Enter Octavius, Antony, Messala,
                 Lucilius, and the Army.

  OCTAVIUS. What man is that?
  MESSALA. My master's man. Strato, where is thy master?
  STRATO. Free from the bondage you are in, Messala:
    The conquerors can but make a fire of him;
    For Brutus only overcame himself,
    And no man else hath honor by his death.
  LUCILIUS. So Brutus should be found. I thank thee, Brutus,
    That thou hast proved Lucilius' saying true.
  OCTAVIUS. All that served Brutus, I will entertain them.
    Fellow, wilt thou bestow thy time with me?
  STRATO. Ay, if Messala will prefer me to you.
  OCTAVIUS. Do so, good Messala.
  MESSALA. How died my master, Strato?
  STRATO. I held the sword, and he did run on it.
  MESSALA. Octavius, then take him to follow thee
    That did the latest service to my master.
  ANTONY. This was the noblest Roman of them all.
    All the conspirators, save only he,
    Did that they did in envy of great Caesar;
    He only, in a general honest thought
    And common good to all, made one of them.
    His life was gentle, and the elements
    So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up
    And say to all the world, "This was a man!"
  OCTAVIUS. According to his virtue let us use him
    With all respect and rites of