ission. Long live Caesar!
  TRIBUNE. Is Lucius general of the forces?
  SECOND SENATOR. Ay.
  TRIBUNE. Remaining now in Gallia?
  FIRST ENATOR. With those legions
    Which I have spoke of, whereunto your levy
    Must be supplyant. The words of your commission
    Will tie you to the numbers and the time
    Of their dispatch.
  TRIBUNE. We will discharge our duty.                    Exeunt




ACT IV. SCENE I.
Wales. Near the cave of BELARIUS

Enter CLOTEN alone

  CLOTEN. I am near to th' place where they should meet, if Pisanio
    have mapp'd it truly. How fit his garments serve me! Why should
    his mistress, who was made by him that made the tailor, not be
    fit too? The rather- saving reverence of the word- for 'tis said
    a woman's fitness comes by fits. Therein I must play the workman.
    I dare speak it to myself, for it is not vain-glory for a man and
    his glass to confer in his own chamber- I mean, the lines of my
    body are as well drawn as his; no less young, more strong, not
    beneath him in fortunes, beyond him in the advantage of the time,
    above him in birth, alike conversant in general services, and
    more remarkable in single oppositions. Yet this imperceiverant
    thing loves him in my despite. What mortality is! Posthumus, thy
    head, which now is growing upon thy shoulders, shall within this
    hour be off; thy mistress enforced; thy garments cut to pieces
    before her face; and all this done, spurn her home to her father,
    who may, haply, be a little angry for my so rough usage; but my
    mother, having power of his testiness, shall turn all into my
    commendations. My horse is tied up safe. Out, sword, and to a
    sore purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand. This is the very
    description of their meeting-place; and the fellow dares not
    deceive me.                                             Exit




SCENE II.
Wales. Before the cave of BELARIUS

Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, and IMOGEN

  BELARIUS. [To IMOGEN] You are not well. Remain here in the cave;
    We'll come to you after hunting.
  ARVIRAGUS. [To IMOGEN] Brother, stay here.
    Are we not brothers?
  IMOGEN. So man and man should be;
    But clay and clay differs in dignity,
    Whose dust is both alike. I am very sick.
  GUIDERIUS. Go you to hunting; I'll abide with him.
  IMOGEN. So sick I am not, yet I am not well;
    But not so citizen a wanton as
    To seem to die ere sick. So