on.
  Leon. I would have sworn it had, my lord--especially against
    Benedick.
  Bene. [aside] I should think this a gull but that the white-bearded
    fellow speaks it. Knavery cannot, sure, hide himself in such
    reverence.
  Claud. [aside] He hath ta'en th' infection. Hold it up.
  Pedro. Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
  Leon. No, and swears she never will. That's her torment.
  Claud. 'Tis true indeed. So your daughter says. 'Shall I,' says
    she, 'that have so oft encount'red him with scorn, write to him
    that I love him?'"
  Leon. This says she now when she is beginning to write to him; for
    she'll be up twenty times a night, and there will she sit in her
    smock till she have writ a sheet of paper. My daughter tells us
    all.
  Claud. Now you talk of a!sheet of paper, I remember a pretty jest
    your daughter told us of.
  Leon. O, when she had writ it, and was reading it over, she found
    'Benedick' and 'Beatrice' between the sheet?
  Claud. That.
  Leon. O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence, rail'd at
    herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she
    knew would flout her. 'I measure him,' says she, 'by my own
    spirit; for I should flout him if he writ to me. Yea, though I
    love him, I should.'
  Claud. Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beats her
    heart, tears her hair, prays, curses--'O sweet Benedick! God give
    me patience!'
  Leon. She doth indeed; my daughter says so. And the ecstasy hath so
    much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeard she will
    do a desperate outrage to herself. It is very true.
  Pedro. It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she
    will not discover it.
  Claud. To what end? He would make but a sport of it and torment the
    poor lady worse.
  Pedro. An he should, it were an alms to hang him! She's an
    excellent sweet lady, and (out of all suspicion) she is virtuous.
  Claud. And she is exceeding wise.
  Pedro. In everything but in loving Benedick.
  Leon. O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body,
    we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory. I am sorry
    for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
  Pedro. I would she had bestowed this dotage on me. I would have
    daff'd all other respects and made her half myself. I pray you
    tell Benedick of it and hear what 'a will say.
  Leon. Were it good, think you?
  Claud. Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she will die
    if he love her not, and she will die ere she make 