ery to conceal it; and therein am I constant to my
    profession.

                   Re-enter CLOWN and SHEPHERD

    Aside, aside- here is more matter for a hot brain. Every lane's
    end, every shop, church, session, hanging, yields a careful man
    work.
  CLOWN. See, see; what a man you are now! There is no other way but
    to tell the King she's a changeling and none of your flesh and
    blood.
  SHEPHERD. Nay, but hear me.
  CLOWN. Nay- but hear me.
  SHEPHERD. Go to, then.
  CLOWN. She being none of your flesh and blood, your flesh and blood
    has not offended the King; and so your flesh and blood is not to
    be punish'd by him. Show those things you found about her, those
    secret things- all but what she has with her. This being done,
    let the law go whistle; I warrant you.
  SHEPHERD. I will tell the King all, every word- yea, and his son's
    pranks too; who, I may say, is no honest man, neither to his
    father nor to me, to go about to make me the King's
    brother-in-law.
  CLOWN. Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you could have
    been to him; and then your blood had been the dearer by I know
    how much an ounce.
  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  Very wisely, puppies!
  SHEPHERD. Well, let us to the King. There is that in this fardel
    will make him scratch his beard.
  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  I know not what impediment this complaint may
    be to the flight of my master.
  CLOWN. Pray heartily he be at palace.
  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  Though I am not naturally honest, I am so
    sometimes by chance. Let me pocket up my pedlar's excrement.
    [Takes off his false beard]  How now, rustics! Whither are you
    bound?
  SHEPHERD. To th' palace, an it like your worship.
  AUTOLYCUS. Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition of
    that fardel, the place of your dwelling, your names, your ages,
    of what having, breeding, and anything that is fitting to be
    known- discover.
  CLOWN. We are but plain fellows, sir.
  AUTOLYCUS. A lie: you are rough and hairy. Let me have no lying; it
    becomes none but tradesmen, and they often give us soldiers the
    lie; but we pay them for it with stamped coin, not stabbing
    steel; therefore they do not give us the lie.
  CLOWN. Your worship had like to have given us one, if you had not
    taken yourself with the manner.
  SHEPHERD. Are you a courtier, an't like you, sir?
  AUTOLYCUS. Whether it like me or no, I am a courtier. Seest thou
    not the air of the court in these enfoldings? Hath not my gait inJ    it the measure of the court? Receives not thy nose court