ove;
    She is not hot, but temperate as the morn;
    For patience she will prove a second Grissel,
    And Roman Lucrece for her chastity.
    And, to conclude, we have 'greed so well together
    That upon Sunday is the wedding-day.
  KATHERINA. I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.
  GREMIO. Hark, Petruchio; she says she'll see thee hang'd first.
  TRANIO. Is this your speeding? Nay, then goïd-night our part!
  PETRUCHIO. Be patient, gentlemen. I choose her for myself;
    If she and I be pleas'd, what's that to you?
    'Tis bargain'd 'twixt us twain, being alone,
    That she shall still be curst in company.
    I tell you 'tis incredible to believe.
    How much she loves me- O, the kindest Kate!
    She hung about my neck, and kiss on kiss
    She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath,
    That in a twink she won me to her love.
    O, you are novices! 'Tis a world to see,
    How tame, when men and women are alone,
    A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.
    Give me thy hand, Kate; I will unto Venice,
    To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding-day.
    Provide the feast, father, and bid the guests;
    I will be sure my Katherine shall be fine.
  BAPTISTA. I know not what to say; but give me your hands.
    God send you joy, Petruchio! 'Tis a match.
  GREMIO, TRANIO. Amen, say we; we will be witnesses.
  PETRUCHIO. Father, and wife, and gentlemen, adieu.
    I will to Venice; Sunday comes apace;
    We will have rings and things, and fine array;
    And kiss me, Kate; we will be married a Sunday.
                        Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHERINA severally
  GREMIO. Was ever match clapp'd up so suddenly?
  BAPTISTA. Faith, gentlemen, now I play a merchant's part,
    And venture madly on a desperate mart.
  TRANIO. 'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you;
    'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
  BAPTISTA. The gain I seek is quiet in the match.
  GREMIO. No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.
    But now, Baptista, to your younger daughter:
    Now is the day we long have looked for;
    I am your neighbour, and was suitor first.
  TRANIO. And I am one that love Bianca more
    Than words can witness or your thoughts can guess.
  GREMIO. Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.
  TRANIO. Greybeard, thy love doth freeze.
  GREMIO. But thine doth fry.
    Skipper, stand back; 'tis age that nourisheth.
  TRANIO. But youth in ladies' eyes that flourisheth.
  BAPTISTA. Content you, gentlemen; I will compound this strife.
    'Tis deeds must win the prize, and he of both
    That can assure my daughter greatest dower
    Shall have my Bianca's love.
    Say, Signior Gremio, what can yo