hen unfold the passion of my love,
    Surprise her with discourse of my dear faith!
    It shall become thee well to act my woes:
    She will attend it better in thy youth
    Than in a nuncio's of more grave aspect.
  VIOLA. I think not so, my lord.
  DUKE. Dear lad, believe it,
    For they shall yet belie thy happy years
    That say thou art a man: Diana's lip
    Is not more smooth and rubious; thy small pipe
    Is as the maiden's organ, shrill and sound,
    And all is semblative a woman's part.
    I know thy constellation is right apt
    For this affair. Some four or five attend him-
    All, if you will, for I myself am best
    When least in company. Prosper well in this,
    And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord
    To call his fortunes thine.
  VIOLA. I'll do my best
    To woo your lady. [Aside] Yet, a barful strife!
    Whoe'er I woo, myself would be his wife.




SCENE V.
OLIVIA'S house

Enter MARIA and CLOWN

  MARIA. Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I will not open
    my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in way of thy excuse; my
    lady will hang thee for thy absence.
  CLOWN. Let her hang me. He that is well hang'd in this world needs
    to fear no colours.
  MARIA. Make that good.
  CLOWN. He shall see none to fear.
  MARIA. A good lenten answer. I can tell thee where that saying was
    born, of 'I fear no colours.'
  CLOWN. Where, good Mistress Mary?
  MARIA. In the wars; and that may you be bold to say in your
    foolery.
  CLOWN. Well, God give them wisdom that have it; and those that are
    fools, let them use their talents.
  MARIA. Yet you will be hang'd for being so long absent; or to be
    turn'd away- is not that as good as a hanging to you?
  CLOWN. Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage; and for turning
    away, let summer bear it out.
  MARIA. You are resolute, then?
  CLOWN. Not so, neither; but I am resolv'd on two points.
  MARIA. That if one break, the other will hold; or if both break,
    your gaskins fall.
  CLOWN. Apt, in good faith, very apt! Well, go thy way; if Sir Toby
    would leave drinking, thou wert as witty a piece of Eve's flesh
    as any in Illyria.
  MARIA. Peace, you rogue, no more o' that. Here comes my lady. Make
    your excuse wisely, you were best.                      Exit

                     Enter OLIVIA and MALVOLIO

  CLOWN. Wit, an't be thy will, put me into good fooling! Those wits
    that think they have thee do very oft prove fools; and I that am
    sure I lack thee may pass for a wise man. For what says
    Quinapalus? 'Better a witty fool than a foolish wit.' God bless
    thee, lady!
  OLIVIA. Take the fool away.
  CLOWN. Do you not hear, fellows? Take away the lady.
  OLIVIA. Wo to, y'are a dry fool; I'll no more of you. Besides, you
    grow dishonest.
  CLOWN. Two faults, madonna, that drink and good counsel will amend;
    for give the dry fool drink, then is the fool not dry. Bid the
    dishonest man mend himself: if he mend, he is no longer
    dishonest; if he cannot, let the botcher mend him. Anything
    that's mended is but patch