 loving hand.
    If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
    To bind our loves up in a holy band;
    For others say thou dost deserve, and I
    Believe it better than reportingly.                    Exit.




Scene II.
A room in Leonato's house.

Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Leonato.

  Pedro. I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go
    I toward Arragon.
  Claud. I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll vouchsafe me.
  Pedro. Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your
    marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear
    it. I will only be bolf with Benedick for his company; for, from
    the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all mirth.
    He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bowstring, and the little
    hangman dare not shoot at him. He hath a heart as sound as a
    bell; and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks,
    his tongue speaks.
  Bene. Gallants, I am not as I have been.
  Leon. So say I. Methinks you are sadder.
  Claud. I hope he be in love.
  Pedro. Hang him, truant! There's no true drop of blood in him to be
    truly touch'd with love. If he be sad, he wants money.
  Bene. I have the toothache.
  Pedro. Draw it.
  Bene. Hang it!
  Claud. You must hang it first and draw it afterwards.
  Pedro. What? sigh for the toothache?
  Leon. Where is but a humour or a worm.
  Bene. Well, every one can master a grief but he that has it.
  Claud. Yet say I he is in love.
  Pedro. There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy
    that he hath to strange disguises; as to be a Dutchman to-day, a
    Frenchman to-morrow; or in the shape of two countries at once, as
    a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from
    the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy to this
    foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you
    would have it appear he is.
  Claud. If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing
    old signs. 'A brushes his hat o' mornings. What should that bode?
  Pedro. Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
  Claud. No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him, and the
     old ornament of his cheek hath already stuff'd tennis balls.
  Leon. Indeed he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.
  Pedro. Nay, 'a rubs himself with civet. Can you smell him out by
    that?
  Claud. That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
  Pedro. The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
  Claud. And when was he wont to wash his face?
  Pedro. Yea, or to paint himself? for the which I hear what they say
    of him.
  Claud. Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is new-crept into a
    lutestring, and now govern'd by stops.
  Pedro. Indeed that tells a heavy tale for him. Conclude, conclude,
    he is in love.
  Claud. Nay, but I know who loves him.
  Pedro. That would I know too. I warrant, one that knows him not.
  Claud. Yes, and his ill conditions; and in despite of all, dies for
    him.
  Pedro. She shall be buried with her face upwards.
  Bene. Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old signior, walk
    aside with me. I have studied eight or nine wise words to speak
    to you, which these hobby-horses must not hear.
                     