re,' let them signify under my sign
    'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'
  Claud. If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.
  Pedro. Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in Venice, thou
    wilt quake for this shortly.
  Bene. I look for an earthquake too then.
  Pedro. Well, you will temporize with the hours. In the meantime,
    good Signior Benedick, repair to Leonato's, commend me to him and
    tell him I will not fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made
    great preparation.
  Bene. I have almost matter enough in me for such an embassage; and
    so I commit you--
  Claud. To the tuition of God. From my house--if I had it--
  Pedro. The sixth of July. Your loving friend, Benedick.
  Bene. Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of your discourse is
    sometime guarded with fragments, and the guards are but slightly
    basted on neither. Ere you flout old ends any further, examine
    your conscience. And so I leave you.      0            Exit.
  Claud. My liege, your Highness now may do me good.
  Pedro. My love is thine to teach. Teach it but how,
    And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn
    Any hard lesson that may do thee good.
  Claud. Hath Leonato any son, my lord?
  Pedro. No child but Hero; she's his only heir.
    Dost thou affect her, Claudio?
  Claud.O my lord,
    When you went onward on this ended action,
    I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye,
    That lik'd, but had a rougher task in hand
    Than to drive liking to the name of love;
    But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts
    Have left their places vacant, in their rooms
    Come thronging soft and delicate desires,
    All prompting me how fair young Hero is,
    Saying I lik'd her ere I went to wars.
  Pedro. Thou wilt be like a lover presently
    And tire the hearer with a book of words.
    If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,
    And I will break with her and with her father,
    And thou shalt have her. Wast not to this end
    That thou began'st to twist so fine a story?
  Claud. How sweetly you do minister to love,
    That know love's grief by his complexion!
    But lest my liking might too sudden seem,
    I would have salv'd it with a longer treatise.
  Pedro. What need the bridge much broader than the flood?
    The fairest grant is the necessity.
    Look, what will serve is fit. 'Tis once, thou lovest,
    And I will fit thee with the remedy.
    I know we shall have revelling to-night.
    I will assume thy part in some disguise
    And tell fair Hero I am Claudio,
    And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart
    And take her hearing prisoner with the force
    And strong encounter of my amorous tale.
    Then after to her father will I break,
    And the conclusion is, she shall be thine.
    In practice let us put it presently.                 Exeunt.




Scene II.
A room in Leonato's house.

Enter [at one door] Leonato and [at another door, Antonio] an old man,
brother to Leonato.

  Leon. How now, brother? Where is my cousin your son? Hath he
    provided this music?
  Ant. He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell you strange
    news that you yet dreamt not of.
  Leon. Are they good?
  Ant. As the event stamps them; but they have a good cover, they
    show well outward. The Prince and Count Claudio, walking in a
  