e, father!
    Father, I charge thee, by thy reverence,
    Here to unfold- though lately we intended
    To keep in darkness what occasion now
    Reveals before 'tis ripe- what thou dost know
    Hath newly pass'd between this youth and me.
  PRIEST. A contract of eternal bond of love,
    Confirm'd by mutual joinder of your hands,
    Attested by the holy close of lips,
    Strength'ned by interchangement of your rings;
    And all the ceremony of this compact
    Seal'd in my function, by my testimony;
    Since when, my watch hath told me, toward my grave,
    I have travell'd but two hours.
  DUKE. O thou dissembling cub! What wilt thou be,
    When time hath sow'd a grizzle on thy case?
    Or will not else thy craft so quickly grow
    That thine own trip shall be thine overthrow?
    Farewell, and take her; but direct thy feet
    Where thou and I henceforth may never meet.
  VIOLA. My lord, I do protest-
  OLIVIA. O, do not swear!
    Hold little faith, though thou has too much fear.

                  Enter SIR ANDREW

  AGUECHEEK. For the love of God, a surgeon!
    Send one presently to Sir Toby.
  OLIVIA. What's the matter?
  AGUECHEEK. Has broke my head across, and has given Sir Toby a
    bloody coxcomb too. For the love of God, your help! I had rather
    than forty pound I were at home.
  OLIVIA. Who has done this, Sir Andrew?
  AGUECHEEK. The Count's gentleman, one Cesario. We took him for a
    coward, but he's the very devil incardinate.
  DUKE. My gentleman, Cesario?
  AGUECHEEK. Od's lifelings, here he is! You broke my head for
    nothing; and that that did, I was set on to do't by Sir Toby.
  VIOLA. Why do you speak to me? I never hurt you.
    You drew your sword upon me without cause;
    But I bespake you fair and hurt you not.

                Enter SIR TOBY and CLOWN

  AGUECHEEK. If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt, you have hurt me; I think
    you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb. Here comes Sir Toby halting;
    you shall hear more; but if he had not been in drink, he would
    have tickl'd you othergates than he did.
  DUKE. How now, gentleman? How is't with you?
  SIR TOBY. That's all one; has hurt me, and there's th' end on't.
    Sot, didst see Dick Surgeon, sot?
  CLOWN. O, he's drunk, Sir Toby, an hour agone; his eyes were set at
    eight i' th' morning.
  SIR TOBY. Then he's a rogue and a passy measures pavin. I hate a
    drunken rogue.
  OLIVIA. Away with him. Who hath made this havoc with them?
  AGUECHEEK. I'll help you, Sir Toby, because we'll be dress'd
    together.
  SIR TOBY. Will you help- an ass-head and a coxcomb and a knave, a
    thin fac'd knave, a gull?
  OLIVIA. Get him to bed, and let his hurt be look'd to.
                  Exeunt CLOWN, FABIAN, SIR TOBY, and SIR ANDREW

                      Enter SEBASTIAN

  SEBASTIAN. I am sorry, madam, I have hurt your kinsman;
    But, had it been the brother of my blood,
    I must have done no less with wit and safety.
    You throw a strange regard upon me, and by that
    I do perceive it hath offended you.
    Pardon me, sweet one, even for the vows
    We made each other but so late ago.
  DUKE. One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons!
    A natural perspective, that is and is not.
  SEBASTIAN. Antonio, O my dear Antonio!
    How have the hours rack'd and tortur'd me
    Since I have lost thee
  ANTONIO. Sebastian are you?
  SEBASTIAN. Fear'st thou that, Antonio?
  A