arge thee hold.
  SIR TOBY. Madam!
  OLIVIA. Will it be ever thus? Ungracious wretch,
    Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves,
    Where manners ne'er were preach'd! Out of my sight!
    Be not offended, dear Cesario-
    Rudesby, be gone!
                         Exeunt SIR TOBY, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
    I prithee, gentle friend,
    Let thy fair wisdom, not thy passion, sway
    In this uncivil and unjust extent
    Against thy peace. Go with me to my house,
    And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks
    This ruffian hath botch'd up, that thou thereby
    Mayst smile at this. Thou shalt not choose but go;
    Do not deny. Beshrew his soul for me!
    He started one poor heart of mine in thee.
  SEBASIAN. What relish is in this? How runs the stream?
    Or I am mad, or else this is a dream.
    Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep;
    If it be thus to dream, still let me sleep!
  OLIVIA. Nay, come, I prithee. Would thou'dst be rul'd by me!
  SEBASTIAN. Madam, I will.
  OLIVIA. O, say so, and so be!                           Exeunt




SCENE II.
OLIVIA'S house

Enter MARIA and CLOWN

  MARIA. Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard; make him
    believe thou art Sir Topas the curate; do it quickly. I'll call
    Sir Toby the whilst.                                    Exit
  CLOWN. Well, I'll put it on, and I will dissemble myself in't; and
    I would I were the first that ever dissembled in such a gown. I
    am not tall enough to become the function well nor lean enough to
    be thought a good student; but to be said an honest man and a
    good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say a careful man and a
    great scholar. The competitors enter.

                 Enter SIR TOBY and MARIA

  SIR TOBY. Jove bless thee, Master Parson.
  CLOWN. Bonos dies, Sir Toby; for as the old hermit of Prague, that
    never saw pen and ink, very wittily said to niece of King
    Gorboduc 'That that is is'; so I, being Master Parson, am Master
    Parson; for what is 'that' but that, and 'is' but is?
  SIR TOBY. To him, Sir Topas.
  CLOWN. What ho, I say! Peace in this prison!
  SIR TOBY. The knave counterfeits well; a good knave.
  MALVOLIO. [Within] Who calls there?
  CLOWN. Sir Topas the curate, who comes to visit Malvolio the
    lunatic.
  MALVOLIO. Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady.
  CLOWN. Out, hyperbolical fiend! How vexest thou this man!
    Talkest thou nothing but of ladies?
  SIR TOBY. Well said, Master Parson.
  MALVOLIO. Sir Topas, never was man thus wronged. Good Sir Topas, do
    not think I am mad; they have laid me here in hideous darkness.
  CLOWN. Fie, thou dishonest Satan! I call thee by the most modest
    terms, for I am one of those gentle ones that will use the devil
    himself with courtesy. Say'st thou that house is dark?
  MALVOLIO. As hell, Sir Topas.
  CLOWN. Why, it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes, and the
    clerestories toward the south north are as lustrous as ebony; and
    yet complainest thou of obstruction?
  MALVOLIO. I am not mad, Sir Topas. I say to you this house is dark.
  CLOWN. Madman, thou errest. I say there is no darkness but
    ignorance; in which thou art more puzzled than the Egyptians in
    their fog.
  MALVOLIO. I say this house is as dark as ignorance, though
    ignorance were as dark as hell; and I say there was never man
    thus abus'd. I am no more mad than you are; make the trial of it
    in any constant question