 out of the
    court. They cherish it to make it stay there; and yet it will no
    more but abide.
  AUTOLYCUS. Vices, I would say, sir. I know this man well; he hath
    been since an ape-bearer; then a process-server, a bailiff; then
    he compass'd a motion of the Prodigal Son, and married a tinker's
    wife within a mile where my land and living lies; and, having
    flown over many knavish professions, he settled only in rogue.
    Some call him Autolycus.
  CLOWN. Out upon him! prig, for my life, prig! He haunts wakes,
    fairs, and bear-baitings.
  AUTOLYCUS. Very true, sir; he, sir, he; that's the rogue that put
    me into this apparel.
  CLOWN. Not a more cowardly rogue in all Bohemia; if you had but
    look'd big and spit at him, he'd have run.
  AUTOLYCUS. I must confess to you, sir, I am no fighter; I am false
    of heart that way, and that he knew, I warrant him.
  CLOWN. Low do you now?
  AUTOLYCUS. Sweet sir, much better than I was; I can stand and walk.
    I will even take my leave of you and pace softly towards my
    kinsman's.
  CLOWN. Shall I bring thee on the way?
  AUTOLYCUS. No, good-fac'd sir; no, sweet sir.
  CLOWN. Then fare thee well. I must go buy spices for our
    sheep-shearing.
  AUTOLYCUS. Prosper you, sweet sir!                  Exit CLOWN
    Your purse is not hot enough to purchase your spice. I'll be with
    you at your sheep-shearing too. If I make not this cheat bring
    out another, and the shearers prove sheep, let me be unroll'd,
    and my name put in the book of virtue!
                                                         [Sings]
            Jog on, jog on, the footpath way,
              And merrily hent the stile-a;
            A merry heart goes all the day,
              Your sad tires in a mile-a.                   Exit




SCENE IV.
Bohemia. The SHEPHERD'S cottage

Enter FLORIZEL and PERDITA

  FLORIZEL. These your unusual weeds to each part of you
    Do give a life- no shepherdess, but Flora
    Peering in April's front. This your sheep-shearing
    Is as a meeting of the petty gods,
    And you the Queen on't.
  PERDITA. Sir, my gracious lord,
    To chide at your extremes it not becomes me-
    O, pardon that I name them! Your high self,
    The gracious mark o' th' land, you have obscur'd
    With a swain's wearing; and me, poor lowly maid,
    Most goddess-like prank'd up. But that our feasts
    In every mess have folly, and the feeders
    Digest it with a custom, I should blush
    To see you so attir'd; swoon, I think,
    To show myself a glass.
  FLORIZEL. I bless the time
    When my good falcon made her flight across
    Thy father's ground.
  PERDITA. Now Jove afford you cause!
    To me the difference forges dread; your greatness
    Hath not been us'd to fear. Even now I tremble
    To think your father, by some accident,
    Should pass this way, as you did. O, the Fates!
    How would he look to see his work, so noble,
    Vilely bound up? What would he say? Or how
    Should I, in these my borrowed flaunts, behold
    The sternness of his presence?
  FLORIZEL. Apprehend
    Nothing but jollity. The gods themselves,
    Humbling their deities to love, have taken
    The shapes of beasts upon them: Jupiter
    Became a bull and bellow'd; the green Neptune
    A ram and bleated; and the fire-rob'd god,
    Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
    As I seem now. Their transformations
    Were never for a piece of beauty rarer,
    Nor in a way so chaste, since my desires
    Ru