AGO. Sir, he is rash and very sudden in choler, and haply may
    strike at you. Provoke him, that he may; for even out of that
    will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny, whose qualification shall
    come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio.
    So shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means
    I shall then have to prefer them, and the impediment most
    profitably removed, without the which there were no expectation
    of our prosperity.
  RODERIGO. I will do this, if I can bring it to any opportunity.
  IAGO. I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel. I must
    fetch his necessaries ashore. Farewell.
  RODERIGO. Adieu.                                              Exit.
  IAGO. That Cassio loves!her, I do well believe it;
    That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit.
    The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not,
    Is of a constant, loving, noble nature,
    And I dare think he'll prove to Desdemona
    A most dear husband. Now, I do love her too,
    Not out of absolute lust, though peradventure
    I stand accountant for as great a sin,
    But partly led to diet my revenge,
    For that I do suspect the lusty Moor
    Hath leap'd into my seat; the thought whereof
    Doth like a poisonous mineral gnaw my inwards,
    And nothing can or shall content my soul
    Till I am even'd with him, wife for wife.
    Or failing so, yet that I put the Moor
    At least into a jealousy so strong
    That judgement cannot cure. Which thing to do,
    If this poor trash of Venice, whom I trace
    For his quick hunting, stand the putting on,
    I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip,
    Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb
    (For I fear Cassio with my nightcap too),
    Make the Moor thank me, love me, and reward me
    For making him egregiously an ass
    And practicing upon his peace and quiet
    Even to madness. 'Tis here, but yet confused:
    Knavery's plain face is never seen till used.               Exit.




SCENE II.
A street.

Enter a Herald with a proclamation; people following.

  HERALD. It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant general,
    that upon certain tidings now arrived, importing the mere
    perdition of the Turkish fleet, every man put himself into
    triumph; some to dance, some to make bonfires, each man to what
    sport and revels his addiction leads him; for besides these
    beneficial news, it is the celebration of his nuptial. So much
    was his pleasure should be proclaimed. All offices are open, and
    there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five
    till the bell have told eleven. Heaven bless the isle of Cyprus
    and our noble general Othello!                            Exeunt.




SCENE III.
A hall in the castle.

Enter Othello, Desdemona, Cassio, and Attendants.

  OTHELLO. Good Michael, look you to the guard tonight.
    Let's teach ourselves that honorable stop,
    Not to outsport discretion.
  CASSIO. Iago hath direction what to do;
    But notwithstanding with my personal eye
    Will I look to't.
  OTHELLO.            Iago is most honest.
    Michael, good night. Tomorrow with your earliest
    Let me have speech with you. Come, my dear love,
    The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue;
    That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.
    Good night.
                           Exeunt Othello, Desdemona, and Attendants.

                             Enter Iago.

  CASSIO. Welcome, Iago; we must to the watch.
  IAGO. Not this hour, lieutenant; 't