u.
  ANTONIO. I could not stay behind you: my desire,
    More sharp than filed steel, did spur me forth;
    And not all love to see you- though so much
    As might have drawn one to a longer voyage-
    But jealousy what might befall your travel,
    Being skilless in these parts; which to a stranger,
    Unguided and unfriended, often prove
    Rough and unhospitable. My willing love,
    The rather by these arguments of fear,
    Set forth in your pursuit.
  SEBASTIAN. My kind Antonio,
    I can no other answer make but thanks,
    And thanks, and ever thanks; and oft good turns
    Are shuffl'd off with such uncurrent pay;
    But were my worth as is my conscience firm,
    You should find better dealing. What's to do?
    Shall we go see the reliques of this town?
  ANTONIO. To-morrow, sir; best first go see your lodging.
  SEBASTIAN. I am not weary, and 'tis long to night;
    I pray you, let us satisfy our eyes
    With the memorials and the things of fame
    That do renown this city.
  ANTONIO. Would you'd pardon me.
    I do not without danger walk these streets:
    Once in a sea-fight 'gainst the Count his galleys
    I did some service; of such note, indeed,
    That, were I ta'en here, it would scarce be answer'd.
  SGBASTIAN. Belike you slew great number of his people.
  ANTONIO.Th' offence is not of such a bloody nature;
    Albeit the quality of the time and quarrel
    Might well have given us bloody argument.
    It might have since been answer'd in repaying
    What we took from them; which, for traffic's sake,
    Most of our city did. Only myself stood out;
    For which, if I be lapsed in this place,
    I shall pay dear.
  SEBASTIAN. Do not then walk too open.
  ANTONIO. It doth not fit me. Hold, sir, here's my purse;
    In the south suburbs, at the Elephant,
    Is best to lodge. I will bespeak our diet,
    Whiles you beguile the time and feed your knowledge
    With viewing of the town; there shall you have me.
  SEBASTIAN. Why I your purse?
  ANTONIO. Haply your eye shall light upon some toy
    You have desire to purchase; and your store,
    I think, is not for idle markets, sir.
  SEBASTIAN. I'll be your purse-bearer, and leave you for
    An hour.
  ANTONIO. To th' Elephant.
  SEBASTIAN. I do remember.                               Exeunt




SCENE IV.
OLIVIA'S garden

Enter OLIVIA and MARIA

  OLIVIA. I have sent after him; he says he'll come.
    How shall I feast him? What bestow of him?
    For youth is bought more oft than begg'd or borrow'd.
    I speak too loud.
    Where's Malvolio? He is sad and civil,
    And suits well for a servant with my fortunes.
    Where is Malvolio?
  MARIA. He's coming, madam; but in very strange manner.
    He is sure possess'd, madam.
  OLIVIA. Why, what's the matter? Does he rave?
  MARIA. No, madam, he does nothing but smile. Your ladyship were
    best to have some guard about you if he come; for sure the man is
    tainted in's wits.
  OLIVIA. Go call him hither.                         Exit MARIA
    I am as mad as he,
    If sad and merry madness equal be.

               Re-enter MARIA with MALVOLIO

    How now, Malvolio!
  MALVOLIO. Sweet lady, ho, ho.
  OLIVIA. Smil'st thou?
    I sent for thee upon a sad occasion.
  MALVOLIO. Sad, lady? I could be sad. This does make some
    obstruction in the blood, this cross-gartering; but what of that?
    If it please the eye of one, it is with me as the very true
    sonnet is: 'Please one and please all.'
  OLIVIA. Why, how dost thou, man? What is the matter with thee?
  MALVOLIO. Not black in my mind, though yellow in my legs.
    It