r
    words nor measure, and for the other I have no strength in
    measure, yet a reasonable measure in strength. If I could win a
    lady at leap-frog, or by vaulting into my saddle with my armour
    on my back, under the correction of bragging be it spoken, I
    should quickly leap into wife. Or if I might buffet for my love,
    or bound my horse for her favours, I could lay on like a butcher,
    and sit like a jack-an-apes, never off. But, before God, Kate, I
    cannot look greenly, nor gasp out my cloquence, nor I have no
    cunning in protestation; only downright oaths, which I never use
    till urg'd, nor never break for urging. If thou canst love a
    fellow of this temper, Kate, whose face is not worth sunburning,
    that never looks in his glass for love of anything he sees there,
    let thine eye be thy cook. I speak to thee plain soldier. If thou
    canst love me for this, take me; if not, to say to thee that I
    shall die is true- but for thy love, by the Lord, no; yet I love
    thee too. And while thou liv'st, dear Kate, take a fellow of
    plain and uncoined constancy; for he perforce must do thee right,
    because he hath not the gift to woo in other places; for these
    fellows of infinite tongue, that can rhyme themselves into
    ladies' favours, they do always reason themselves out again.
    What! a speaker is but a prater: a rhyme is but a ballad. A good
    leg will fall; a straight back will stoop; a black beard will
    turn white; a curl'd pate will grow bald; a fair face will
    wither; a full eye will wax hollow. But a good heart, Kate, is
    the sun and the moon; or, rather, the sun, and not the moon- for
    it shines bright and never changes, but keeps his course truly.
    If thou would have such a one, take me; and take me, take a
    soldier; take a soldier, take a king. And what say'st thou, then,
    to my love? Speak, my fair, and fairly, I pray thee.
  KATHERINE. Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
  KING HENRY. No, it is not possible you should love the enemy of
    France, Kate, but in loving me you should love the friend of
    France; for I love France so well that I will not part with a
    village of it; I will have it all mine. And, Kate, when France is
    mine and I am yours, then yours is France and you are mine.
  KATHERINE. I cannot tell vat is dat.
  KING HENRY. No, Kate? I will tell thee in French, which I am sure
    will hang upon my tongue like a new-married wife about her
    husband's neck, hardly to be shook off. Je quand sur le
    possession de France, et quand vous avez le possession de moi-
    let me see, what then? Saint Denis be my speed!- donc votre est
    France et vous etes mienne. It is as easy for me, Kate, to
    conquer the kingdom as to speak so much more french: I shall
    never move thee in French, unless it be to laugh at me.
  KATHERINE. Sauf votre honneur, le Francais que vous parlez, il est
    meilleur que l'Anglais lequel je parle.
  KING HENRY. No, faith, is't not, Kate; but thy speaking of my
    tongue, and I thine, most truly falsely, must needs be granted to
    be much at one. But, Kate, dost thou understand thus much
    English- Canst thou love me?
  KATHERINE. I cannot tell.
  KING HENRY. Can any of your neighbours tell, Kate? I'll ask them.
    Come, I know thou lovest me; and at night, when you come into
    your closet, you'll question this gentlewoman about me; and I
    know, Kate, you will to her dispraise those parts in me that you
    love with your heart. But, good Kate, mock me mercifully; the
    rather, gentle Princess, because I love thee cruelly. If ever
    thou beest mine, Kate, as I have a saving faith within me tells
    me thou shalt, I get thee with scambling, and thou must therefore
    ne