 tell you who your fellow is
     That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!
     I will go seek the King.
  Gent. Give me your hand. Have you no more to say?
  Kent. Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet:
     That, when we have found the King (in which your pain
     That way, I'll this), he that first lights on him
     Holla the other.
                                             Exeunt [severally].




Scene II.
Another part of the heath.

Storm still. Enter Lear and Fool.

  Lear. Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!
     You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
     Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
     You sulph'rous and thought-executing fires,
     Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
     Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
     Strike flat the thick rotundity o' th' world,
     Crack Nature's moulds, all germains spill at once,
     That makes ingrateful man!
  Fool. O nuncle, court holy water in a dry house is better than this
     rain water out o' door. Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters
     blessing! Here's a night pities nether wise men nor fools.
  Lear. Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
     Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire are my daughters.
     I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness.
     I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
     You owe me no subscription. Then let fall
     Your horrible pleasure. Here I stand your slave,
     A poor, infirm, weak, and despis'd old man.
     But yet I call you servile ministers,
     That will with two pernicious daughters join
     Your high-engender'd battles 'gainst a head
     So old and white as this! O! O! 'tis foul!
  Fool. He that has a house to put 's head in has a good head-piece.
          The codpiece that will house
            Before the head has any,
          The head and he shall louse:
            So beggars marry many.
          The man that makes his toe
            What he his heart should make
          Shall of a corn cry woe,
            And turn his sleep to wake.
     For there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths in a
     glass.

                             Enter Kent.

  Lear. No, I will be the pattern of all patience;
     I will say nothing.
  Kent. Who's there?
  Fool. Marry, here's grace and a codpiece; that's a wise man and a
     fool.
  Kent. Alas, sir, are you here? Things that love night
     Love not such nights as these. The wrathful skies
     Gallow the very wanderers of the dark
     And make them keep their caves. Since I was man,
     Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
     Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
     Remember to have heard. Man's nature cannot carry
     Th' affliction nor the fear.
  Lear. Let the great gods,
     That keep this dreadful pudder o'er our heads,
     Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,
     That hast within thee undivulged crimes
     Unwhipp'd of justice. Hide thee, thou bloody hand;
     Thou perjur'd, and thou simular man of virtue
     That art incestuous. Caitiff, in pieces shake
     That under covert and convenient seeming
     Hast practis'd on man's life. Close pent-up guilts,
     Rive your concealing continents, and cry
     These dreadful summoners grace. I am a man
     More sinn'd against than sinning.
  Kent. Alack, bareheaded?
     Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;
     Some friendship wilL it lend you 'gainst the tempest.
     Repose you there, whilst I to this hard house
     (More harder than the stones whereof 'tis rais'd,
     Which even but now, demanding after you,
     Denied me to come in) return, and force
     Their scanted courtesy.
  Lear. My wits begin to turn.
     Come on, my boy. How dost, my boy? Art cold?
     I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my fellow?
   