a's Foresters, Gentlemen of the Shade,
    Minions of the Moon; and let men say we be men of good
    government, being governed as the sea is, by our noble and chaste
    mistress the moon, under whose countenance we steal.
  Prince. Thou sayest well, and it holds well too; for the fortune of
    us that are the moon's men doth ebb and flow like the sea, being
    governed, as the sea is, by the moon. As, for proof now: a purse
    of gold most resolutely snatch'd on Monday night and most
    dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning; got with swearing 'Lay by,'
    and spent with crying 'Bring in'; now ill as low an ebb as the
    foot of the ladder, and by-and-by in as high a flow as the ridge
    of the gallows.
  Fal. By the Lord, thou say'st true, lad- and is not my hostess of
    the tavern a most sweet wench?
  Prince. As the honey of Hybla, my old lad of the castle- and is not
    a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance?
  Fal. How now, how now, mad wag? What, in thy quips and thy
    quiddities? What a plague have I to do with a buff jerkin?
  Prince. Why, what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern?
  Fal. Well, thou hast call'd her to a reckoning many a time and oft.
  Prince. Did I ever call for thee to pay thy part?
  Fal. No; I'll give thee thy due, thou hast paid all there.
  Prince. Yea, and elsewhere, so far as my coin would stretch; and
    where it would not, I have used my credit.
  Fal. Yea, and so us'd it that, were it not here apparent that thou
    art heir apparent- But I prithee, sweet wag, shall there be
    gallows standing in England when thou art king? and resolution
    thus fubb'd as it is with the rusty curb of old father antic the
    law? Do not thou, when thou art king, hang a thief.
  Prince. No; thou shalt.
  Fal. Shall I? O rare! By the Lord, I'll be a brave judge.
  Prince. Thou judgest false already. I mean, thou shalt have the
    hanging of the thieves and so become a rare hangman.
  Fal. Well, Hal, well; and in some sort it jumps with my humour as
    well as waiting in the court, I can tell you.
  Prince. For obtaining of suits?
  Fal. Yea, for obtaining of suits, whereof the hangman hath no lean
    wardrobe. 'Sblood, I am as melancholy as a gib-cat or a lugg'd
    bear.
  Prince, Or an old lion, or a lover's lute.
  Fal. Yea, or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe.
  Prince. What sayest thou to a hare, or the melancholy of Moor
    Ditch?
  Fal. Thou hast the most unsavoury similes, and art indeed the most
    comparative, rascalliest, sweet young prince. But, Hal, I prithee
    trouble me no more with vanity. I would to God thou and I knew
    where a commodity of good names were to be bought. An old lord of
    the Council rated me the other day in the street about you, sir,
    but I mark'd him not; and yet he talked very wisely, but I
    regarded him not; and yet he talk'd wisely, and in the street
    too.
  Prince. Thou didst well; for wisdom cries out in the streets, and
    no man regards it.
  Fal. O, thou hast damnable iteration, and art indeed able to
    corrupt a saint. Thou hast done much harm upon me, Hal- God
    forgive thee for it! Before I knew thee, Hal, I knew nothing; and
    now am I, if a man should speak truly, little better than one of
    the wicked. I must give over this life, and I will give it over!
    By the Lord, an I do not, I am a villain! I'll be damn'd for
    never a king's son in Christendom.
  Prince. Where shall we take a purse tomorrow, Jack?
  Fal. Zounds, where thou wilt, lad! I'll make one. An I do not, call
    me villain and baffle me.
  Prince. I see a good amendment of life in thee- from praying to
    purse-taking.
  Fal. Why, Hal, 'tis my vocation, Hal. 'Tis no sin for a man to
    labour in his vocation.

                             Enter Poins.

    Poins! Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a match. O, if men
    were to be saved by merit, what hole in hell were hot enough for
    him? This is the most omnipotent villain that ever cried 'Stand!'
    to a true man.
  Prince. Good morrow, N