
  John. [to Claudio] Means your lordship to be married tomorrow?
  Pedro. You know he does.
  John. I know not that, when he knows what I know.
  Claud. If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
  John. You may think I love you not. Let that appear hereafter, and
    aim better at me by that I now will manifest. For my brother, I
    think he holds you well and in dearness of heart hath holp to
    effect your ensuing marriage--surely suit ill spent and labour
    ill bestowed!
  Pedro. Why, what's the matter?
  John. I came hither to tell you, and, circumstances short'ned (for
    she has been too long a-talking of), the lady is disloyal.
  Claud. Who? Hero?
  John. Even she--Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero.
  Claud. Disloyal?
  John. The word is too good to paint out her wickedness. I could say
    she were worse; think you of a worse title, and I will fit her to
    it. Wonder not till further warrant. Go but with me to-night, you
    shall see her chamber window ent'red, even the night before her
    wedding day. If you love her then, to-morrow wed her. But it
    would better fit your honour to change your mind.
  Claud. May this be so?
  Pedro. I will not think it.
  John. If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you
    know. If you will follow me, I will show you enough; and when you
    have seen more and heard more, proceed accordingly.
  Claud. If I see anything to-night why I should not marry her
    to-morrow, in the congregation where I should wed, there will I
    shame her.
  Pedro. And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with
    thee to disgrace her.
  John. I will disparage her no farther till you are my witnesses.
    Bear it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue show itself.
  Pedro. O day untowardly turned!
  Claud. O mischief strangely thwarting!
  John. O plague right well prevented!
    So will you say when you have seen the Sequel.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene III.
A street.

Enter Dogberry and his compartner [Verges], with the Watch.

  Dog. Are you good men and true?
  Verg. Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer salvation,
    body and soul.
  Dog. Nay, that were a punishment too good for them if they should
    have any allegiance in them, being chosen for the Prince's watch.
  Verg. Well, give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry.
  Dog. First, who think you the most desartless man to be constable?
  1. Watch. Hugh Oatcake, sir, or George Seacoal; for they can write
    and read.
  Dog. Come hither, neighbour Seacoal. God hath bless'd you with a
    good name. To be a well-favoured man is the gift of fortune, but
    to write and read comes by nature.
  2. Watch. Both which, Master Constable--
  Dog. You have. I knew it would be your answer. Well, for your
    favour, sir, why, give God thanks and make no boast of it; and
    for your writing and reading, let that appear when there is no
    need of such vanity. You are thought here to be the most
    senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch. Therefore
    bear you the lanthorn. This is your charge: you shall comprehend
    all vagrom men; you are to bid any man stand, in the Prince's
    name.
  2. Watch. How if 'a will not stand?
  Dog. Why then, take no note of him, but let him go, and presently
    call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of
    a knave.
  Verg. If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the
    Prince's subjects.
  Dog. True, and they are to meddle with none but the Prince's
    subjects. You shall also make no noise in the streets; for for
    the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable, and not to be
    endured.
  2. Watch. We will rather sleep than talk. We know what belongs to
    a watch.
  Dog. Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman, for I
    cannot see how sleeping should offend. Only have a care that your
    bills be not stol'n. Well, you are to call at all the alehouses
    and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
  2. Watch. How if they will not?
  Dog.