rom the spheres.
  VIOLA. Dear lady-
  OLIVIA. Give me leave, beseech you. I did send,
    After the last enchantment you did here,
    A ring in chase of you; so did I abuse
    Myself, my servant, and, I fear me, you.
    Under your hard construction must I sit,
    To force that on you in a shameful cunning
    Which you knew none of yours. What might you think?
    Have you not set mine honour at the stake,
    And baited it with all th' unmuzzled thoughts
    That tyrannous heart can think? To one of your receiving
    Enough is shown: a cypress, not a bosom,
    Hides my heart. So, let me hear you speak.
  VIOLA. I Pity YOU.
  OLIVIA. That's a degree to love.
  VIOLA. No, not a grize; for 'tis a vulgar proof
    That very oft we pity enemies.
  OLIVIA. Why, then, methinks 'tis time to smile again.
    O world, how apt the poor are to be proud!
    If one should be a prey, how much the better
    To fall before the lion than the wolf!       [Clock strikes]
    The clock upbraids me with the waste of time.
    Be not afraid, good youth; I will not have you;
    And yet, when wit and youth is come to harvest,
    Your wife is like to reap a proper man.
    There lies your way, due west.
  VIOLA. Then westward-ho!
    Grace and good disposition attend your ladyship!
    You'll nothing, madam, to my lord by me?
  OLIVIA. Stay.
    I prithee tell me what thou think'st of me.
  VIOLA. That you do think you are not what you are.
  OLIVIA. If I think so, I think the same of you.
  VIOLA. Then think you right: I am not what I am.
  OLIVIA. I would you were as I would have you be!
  VIOLA. Would it be better, madam, than I am?
    I wish it might, for now I am your fool.
  OLIVIA. O, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
    In the contempt and anger of his lip!
    A murd'rous guilt shows not itself more soon
    Than love that would seem hid: love's night is noon.
    Cesario, by the roses of the spring,
    By maidhood, honour, truth, and every thing,
    I love thee so that, maugre all thy pride,
    Nor wit nor reason can my passion hide.
    Do not extort thy reasons from this clause,
    For that I woo, thou therefore hast no cause;
    But rather reason thus with reason fetter:
    Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.
  VIOLA. By innocence I swear, and by my youth,
    I have one heart, one bosom, and one truth,
    And that no woman has; nor never none
    Shanl mistress be of it, save I alone.
    And so adieu, good madam; never more
    Will I my master's tears to you deplore.
  OLIVIA. Yet come again; for thou perhaps mayst move
    That heart which now abhors to like his love.         Exeunt




SCENE II.
OLIVIA'S house

Enter SIR TOBY, SIR ANDREW and FABIAN

  AGUECHEEK. No, faith, I'll not stay a jot longer.
  SIR TOBY. Thy reason, dear venom, give thy reason.
  FABIAN. You must needs yield your reason, Sir Andrew.
  AGUECHEEK. Marry, I saw your niece do more favours to the Count's
    servingman than ever she bestow'd upon me; I saw't i' th'
    orchard.
  SIR TOBY. Did she see thee the while, old boy? Tell me that.
  AGUECHEEK. As plain as I see you now.
  FABIAN. This was a great argument of love in her toward you.
  AGUECHEEK. 'Slight! will you make an ass o' me?
  FABIAN. I will prove it legitimate, sir, upon the oaths of judgment
    and reason.
  SIR TOBY. And they have been grand-jurymen since before Noah was a
    sailor.
  FABIAN. She did show favour to the youth in your sight only to
    exasperate you, to awake your dormouse valour, to put fire in
    your heart and brimstone in your liver. You should then have
    accosted her; and with some excellent jests, fire-new from the
    mint, you should have bang'd the youth into dumbness. This was
    look'd for at your hand, and this was baulk'd. The double gilt of
    this opportunity you let time wash off, and you are now sail'd
    into the north of my lady's opinion; where you will hang like an
    icicle on Dutchman's beard, unless you do redeem it by some
    laudable attempt either of valour or policy.
  AGUECHEEK. An't be any way, it must be with valour, for policy I
    hate; I had as lief be a Brownist as a politician.
  SIR TOBY. Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis of
    valour. Challenge me the Count's youth to fight with him; hurt
    him in eleven places. My niece shall take note of it; and assure
    thyself there is no love-broker in the world can more prevail in
    man's commendation with woman than report of valour.
  FABIAN. There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.
  AGUECHEEK. Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?
  SIR TOBY. Go, write it in a martial hand; be curst and brief; it is
    no matter how witty, so it be eloquent and full of invention.
    Taunt him with the license of ink; if thou thou'st him some
    thrice, it shall not be amiss; and as many lies as will lie in
    thy sheet of paper, although the sheet were big enough for the
    bed of Ware in England, set 'em down; go about it. Let there be
    gall enough in thy ink, though thou write w