ogether,
    that no dram of a scruple, no scruple of a scruple, no obstacle,
    no incredulous or unsafe circumstance- What can be said? Nothing
    that can be can come between me and the full prospect of my
    hopes. Well, Jove, not I, is the doer of this, and he is to be
    thanked.

             Re-enter MARIA, with SIR TOBY and FABIAN

  SIR TOBY. Which way is he, in the name of sanctity? If all the
    devils of hell be drawn in little, and Legion himself possess'd
    him, yet I'll speak to him.
  FABIAN. Here he is, here he is. How is't with you, sir?
  SIR TOBY. How is't with you, man?
  MALVOLIO. Go off; I discard you. Let me enjoy my private; go off.
  MARIA. Lo, how hollow the fiend speaks within him! Did not I tell
    you? Sir Toby, my lady prays you to have a care of him.
  MALVOLIO. Ah, ha! does she so?
  SIR TOBY. Go to, go to; peace, peace; we must deal gently with him.
    Let me alone. How do you, Malvolio? How is't with you? What, man,
    defy the devil; consider, he's an enemy to mankind.
  MALVOLIO. Do you know what you say?
  MARIA. La you, an you speak ill of the devil, how he takes it at
    heart! Pray God he be not bewitched.
  FABIAN. Carry his water to th' wise woman.
  MARIA. Marry, and it shall be done to-morrow morning, if I live. My
    lady would not lose him for more than I'll say.
  MALVOLIO. How now, mistress!
  MARIA. O Lord!
  SIR TOBY. Prithee hold thy peace; this is not the way. Do you not
    see you move him? Let me alone with him.
  FABIAN. No way but gentleness- gently, gently. The fiend is rough,
    and will not be roughly us'd.
  SIR TOBY. Why, how now, my bawcock!
    How dost thou, chuck?
  MALVOLIO. Sir!
  SIR TOBY. Ay, Biddy, come with me. What, man, 'tis not for gravity
    to play at cherrypit with Satan. Hang him, foul collier!
  MARIA. Get him to say his prayers, good Sir Toby, get him to pray.
  MALVOLIO. My prayers, minx!
  MARIA. No, I warrant you, he will not hear of godliness.
  MALVOLIO. Go, hang yourselves all! You are idle shallow things; I
    am not of your element; you shall know more hereafter.
 Exit
  SIR TOBY. Is't possible?
  FABIAN. If this were play'd upon a stage now, I could condemn it as
    an improbable fiction.
  SIR TOBY. His very genius hath taken the infection Of the device,
    man.
  MARIA. Nay, pursue him now, lest the device take air and taint.
  FABIAN. Why, we shall make him mad indeed.
  MARIA. The house will be the quieter.
  SIR TOBY. Come, we'll have him in a dark room and bound. My niece
    is already in the belief that he's mad. We may carry it thus, for
    our pleasure and his penance, till our very pastime, tired out of
    breath, prompt us to have mercy on him; at which time we will
    bring the device to the bar and crown thee for a finder of
    madmen. But see, but see.

                     Enter SIR ANDREW

  FABIAN. More matter for a May morning.
  AGUECHEEK. Here's the challenge; read it. I warrant there's vinegar
    and pepper in't.
  FABIAN. Is't so saucy?
  AGUECHEEK. Ay, is't, I warrant him; do but read.
  SIR TOBY. Give me. [Reads] 'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art
    but a scurvy fellow.'
  FABIAN. Good and valiant.
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Wonder not, nor admire not in thy mind, why I do
    call thee so, for I will show thee no reason for't.'
  FABIAN. A good note; that keeps you from the blow of the law.
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Thou com'st to the Lady Olivia, and in my sight
    she uses thee kindly; but thou liest in thy throat; that is not
    the matter I challenge thee for.'
  FABIAN. Very brief, and to exceeding good sense- less.
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'I will waylay thee going home; where if it be
    thy chance to kill me'-
  FABIAN. Good.
  SIR TOBY. 'Thou kill'st me like a rogue and a villain.'
  FABIAN. Still you keep o' th' windy side of the law. Good!
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Fare thee well; and God have mercy upon one of
    our souls! He may have mercy upon mine; but my hope is better,
    and so look to thyself. Thy friend, as thou usest him, and thy
    sworn enemy,
                                              ANDREW AGUECHEEK.'

    If this letter move him not, his legs cannot. I'll give't him.
  MARIA. You may have very fit occasion for't; he is now in some
    commerce with my lady, and will by and by depart.
  SIR TOBY. Go, Sir Andrew; scout me for him at the corner of the
    orchard, like a bum-baily; so soon as ever thou seest him, draw;
    and as thou draw'st, swear horrible; for it comes to pass oft
    that a terrible oath, with a swaggering accent sharply twang'd
    off, gives manhood more approbation than ever proof itself would
    have earn'd him. Away.
  AGUECHEEK. Nay, let me alone for swearing.                Exit
  SIR TOBY. Now will not I deliver his letter; for the behaviour of
    the young gentleman gives him out to be of good capacity and
    breeding; his employment between his lord and my niece confirms
    no less. Therefore this letter, being so excellently ignorant,
    will breed no terror in the youth: he will find it comes from a
    clodpole. But, sir, I will deliver his challenge by word of
    mouth, set upon Aguecheek notable report of valour, and drive