  Will't please you, sir, be gone?
    I told you what would come of this. Beseech you,
    Of your own state take care. This dream of mine-
    Being now awake, I'll queen it no inch farther,
    But milk my ewes and weep.
  CAMILLO. Why, how now, father!
    Speak ere thou diest.
  SHEPHERD. I cannot speak nor think,
    Nor dare to know that which I know.  [To FLORIZEL]  O sir,
    You have undone a man of fourscore-three
    That thought to fill his grave in quiet, yea,
    To die upon the bed my father died,
    To lie close by his honest bones; but now
    Some hangman must put on my shroud and lay me
    Where no priest shovels in dust. [To PERDITA] O cursed wretch,
    That knew'st this was the Prince, and wouldst adventure
    To mingle faith with him!- Undone, undone!
    If I might die within this hour, I have liv'd
    To die when I desire.                                   Exit
  FLORIZEL. Why look you so upon me?
    I am but sorry, not afeard; delay'd,
    But nothing alt'red. What I was, I am:
    More straining on for plucking back; not following
    My leash unwillingly.
  CAMILLO. Gracious, my lord,
    You know your father's temper. At this time
    He will allow no speech- which I do guess
    You do not purpose to him- and as hardly
    Will he endure your sight as yet, I fear;
    Then, till the fury of his Highness settle,
    Come not before him.
  FLORIZEL. I not purpose it.
    I think Camillo?
  CAMILLO. Even he, my lord.
  PERDITA. How often have I told you 'twould be thus!
    How often said my dignity would last
    But till 'twere known!
  FLORIZEL. It cannot fail but by
    The violation of my faith; and then
    Let nature crush the sides o' th' earth together
    And mar the seeds within! Lift up thy looks.
    From my succession wipe me, father; I
    Am heir to my affection.
  CAMILLO. Be advis'd.
  FLORIZEL. I am- and by my fancy; if my reason
    Will thereto be obedient, I have reason;
    If not, my senses, better pleas'd with madness,
    Do bid it welcome.
  CAMILLO. This is desperate, sir.
  FLORIZEL. So call it; but it does fulfil my vow:
    I needs must think it honesty. Camillo,
    Not for Bohemia, nor the pomp that may
    Be thereat glean'd, for all the sun sees or
    The close earth wombs, or the profound seas hides
    In unknown fathoms, will I break my oath
    To this my fair belov'd. Therefore, I pray you,
    As you have ever been my father's honour'd friend,
    When he shall miss me- as, in faith, I mean not
    To see him any more- cast your good counsels
    Upon his passion. Let myself and Fortune
    Tug for the time to come. This you may know,
    And so deliver: I am put to sea
    With her who here I cannot hold on shore.
    And most opportune to her need I have
    A vessel rides fast by, but not prepar'd
    For this design. What course I mean to hold
    Shall nothing benefit your knowledge, nor
    Concern me the reporting.
  CAMILLO. O my lord,
    I would your spirit were easier for advice.
    Or stronger for your need.
  FLORIZEL. Hark, Perdita.                     [Takes her aside]
    [To CAMILLO]  I'll hear you by and by.
  CAMILLO. He's irremovable,
    Resolv'd for flight. Now were I happy if
    His going I could frame to serve my turn,
    Save him from danger, do him love and honour,
    Purchase the sight again of dear Sicilia
    And that unhappy king, my master, whom
    I so much thirst to see.
  FLORIZEL. Now, good Camillo,
    I am so fraught with curious business that
    I leave out ceremony.
  CAMILLO. Sir, I think
    You have heard of my poor services i' th' love
    That I have borne your father?
  FLORIZEL. Very nobly
    Have you deserv'd. It is my father's music
    To speak your deeds; not little of his care
    To have them recompens'd as thought on.
  CAMILLO. Well, my lord,
    If you may please to think I love the King,
    And through him what's nearest to him, which is
    Your gracious self, embrace but my direction.
    If your more ponderous and settled project
    May suffer alteration, on mine honour,
    I'll point you where you shall have such receiving
    As shall become your Highness; where you may
    Enjoy your mistress, from the whom, I see,
    There's no disjunction to be made but by,
    As heavens forfend! your ruin- marry her;
    And with my best endeavours in your absence
    Your discontenting father strive to qualify,
    And bring him up to liking.
  FLORIZEL. How, Camillo,
    May this, almost a miracle, be done?
    That I may call thee something more than man,
    And after that trust to thee.
  CAMILLO. Have you thought on
    A place whereto you'll go?
  FLORIZEL. Not any yet;
    But as th' unthought-on accident is guilty
    To what we wildly do, so we profess
    Ourselves to be the slaves of chance and flies
    Of every wind that blows.
  CAMILLO. Then list to me.
    This follows, if you will not change your purpose
    But undergo this flight: make for Sicilia,
    And there present yourself and your fair princess-
    For so, I see, she must be- fore Leontes.
    She shall be habited as it becomes
    The partner of your bed. Methinks I see
    Leontes opening his free arms and weeping
    His welcomes forth; asks thee there 'Son, forgiveness!'
    As 'twere i' th' father's person; kisses the hands
    Of your fresh princess; o'er and o'er divides him
    'Twixt his unkindness and his kindness- th' one
    He chides to hell, and bids the other grow
    Faster than thought or time.
  FLORIZEL. Worthy Camillo,
    What colour for my visitation shall I
    Hold up before him?
  CAMILLO. Sent by the King your father
    To greet him and to give him comforts. Sir,
    The manner of your bearing towards him, with
    What you as from your father shall deliver,
    Things known betwixt us three, I'll write you down;
    The which shall point you forth at every sitting
    What you must say, that he shall not perceive
    But that you have your father's bosom there
    And speak his very heart.
  FLORIZEL. I am bound to you.
    There is some sap in this.
  CAMILLO. A course more promising
    Than a wild dedication of yourselves
    To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores, most certain
    To miseries enough; no hope to help you,
    But as you shake off one to take another;
    Nothing so certain as your anchors, who
    Do their best office if they can but stay you
    Where you'll be loath to be. Besides, you know
    Prosperity's the very bond of love,
    Whose fresh complexion and whose heart together
    Affliction alters.
  PERDITA. One of these is true:
    I think affliction may subdue the cheek,
    But not take in the mind.
  CAMILLO. Yea, say you so?
    There shall not at your father's house these seven years
    Be born another such.
  FLORIZEL. My good Camillo,
    She is as forward of her breeding as
    She is i' th' rear o' our birth.
  CAMILLO. I cannot say 'tis pity
    She lacks instructions, for she seems a mistress
    To most that teach.^
  PERDITA. Your pardon, sir; for this
    I'll blush you thanks.
  FLORIZEL. My prettiest Perdita!
    But, O, the thorns we stand upon! Camillo-
    Preserver of my father, now of me;
    The medicine of our house- how shall we do?
    We are not furnish'd like Bohemia's son;
    Nor shall appear in Sicilia.
  CAMILLO. My lord,
    Fear none of this. I think you know my fortunes
    Do all lie there. It shall be so my care
    To have you royally appointed as if
    The scene you play were mine. For instance, sir,
    That you may know you shall not want- one word.
                                               [They talk aside]

                     Re-enter AUTOLYCUS

  AUTOLYCUS. Ha, ha! what a fool Honesty is! and Trust, his sworn
    brother, a very simple gentleman! I have sold all my trumpery;
    not a counterfeit stone, not a ribbon, glass, pomander, brooch,
    table-book, ballad, knife, tape, glove, shoe-tie, bracelet,
    horn-ring, to keep my pack from fasting. They throng who should
    buy first, as if my trinkets had been hallowed and brought a
    benediction to the buyer; by which means I saw whose purse was
    best in picture; and what I saw, to my good use I rememb'red. My
    clown, who wants but something to be a reasonable man, grew so in
    love with the wenches' song that he would not stir his pettitoes
    till he had both tune and words, which so drew the rest of the
    herd to me that all their other senses stuck in ears. You might
    have pinch'd a placket, it was senseless; 'twas nothing to geld a
    codpiece of a purse; I would have fil'd keys off that hung in
    chains. No hearing, no feeling, but my sir's song, and admiring
    the nothing of it. So that in this time of lethargy I pick'd and
    cut most of their festival purses; and had not the old man come
    in with whoobub against his daughter and the King's son and
    scar'd my choughs from the chaff, I had not left a purse alive in
    the whole army.

              CAMILLO, FLORIZEL, and PERDITA come forward

  CAMILLO. Nay, but my letters, by this means being there
    So soon as you arrive, shall clear that doubt.
  FLORIZEL. And those that you'll procure from King Leontes?
  CAMILLO. Shall satisfy your father.
  PERDITA. Happy be you!
    All that you speak shows fair.
  CAMILLO.  [seeing AUTOLYCUS]  Who have we here?
    We'll make an instrument of this; omit
    Nothing may give us aid.
  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  If they have overheard me now- why, hanging.
  CAMILLO. How now, good fellow! Why shak'st thou so?
    Fear not, man; here's no harm intended to thee.
  AUTOLYCUS. I am a poor fellow, sir.
  CAMILLO. Why, be so still; here's nobody will steal that from thee.
    Yet for the outside of thy poverty we must make an exchange;
    therefore discase thee instantly- thou must think there's a
    necessity in't- and change garments with this gentleman. Though
    the pennyworth on his side be the worst, yet hold thee, there's
    some boot.  [Giving money]
  AUTOLYCUS. I am a poor fellow, sir.  [Aside]  I know ye well
    enough.
  CAMILLO. Nay, prithee dispatch. The gentleman is half flay'd
    already.
  AUTOLYCUS. Are you in camest, sir?  [Aside]  I smell the trick
    on't.
  FLORIZEL. Dispatch, I prithee.
  AUTOLYCUS. Indeed, I have had earnest; but I cannot with conscience
    take it.
  CAMILLO. Unbuckle, unbuckle.

             FLORIZEL and AUTOLYCUS exchange garments

    Fortunate mistress- let my prophecy
    Come home to ye!- you must retire yourself
    Into some covert; take your sweetheart's hat
    And pluck it o'er your brows, muffle your face,
    Dismantle you, and, as you can, disliken
    The truth of your own seeming, that you may-
    For I do fear eyes over- to shipboard
    Get undescried.
  PERDITA. I see the play so lies
    That I must bear a part.
  CAMILLO. No remedy.
    Have you done there?
  FLORIZEL. Should I now meet my father,
    He would not call me son.
  CAMILLO. Nay, you shall have no hat.
                                          [Giving it to PERDITA]
    Come, lady, come. Farewell, my friend.
  AUTOLYCUS. Adieu, sir.
  FLORIZEL. O Perdita, what have we twain forgot!
    Pray you a word.                       [They converse apart]
  CAMILLO.  [Aside]  What I do next shall be to tell the King
    Of this escape, and whither they are bound;
    Wherein my hope is I shall so prevail
    To force him after; in whose company
    I shall re-view Sicilia, for whose sight
    I have a woman's longing.
  FLORIZEL. Fortune speed us!
    Thus we set on, Camillo, to th' sea-side.
  CAMILLO. The swifter speed the better.
                           Exeunt FLORIZEL, PERDITA, and CAMILLO
  AUTOLYCUS. I understand the business, I hear it. To have an open
    ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is necessary for a
    cut-purse; a good nose is requisite also, to smell out work for
    th' other senses. I see this is the time that the unjust man doth
    thrive. What an exchange had this been without boot! What a boot
    is here with this exchange! Sure, the gods do this year connive
    at us, and we may do anything extempore. The Prince himself is
    about a piece of iniquity- stealing away from his father with his
    clog at his heels. If I thought it were a piece of honesty to
    acquaint the King withal, I would not do't. I hold it the more
    knavery to conceal it; and therein am I constant to my
    profession.

                   Re-enter CLOWN and SHEPHERD

    Aside, aside- here is more matter for a hot brain. Every lane's
    end, every shop, church, session, hanging, yields a careful man
    work.
  CLOWN. See, see; what a man you are now! There is no other way but
    to tell the King she's a changeling and none of your flesh and
    blood.
  SHEPHERD. Nay, but hear me.
  CLOWN. Nay- but hear me.
  SHEPHERD. Go to, then.
  CLOWN. She being none of your flesh and blood, your flesh and blood
    has not offended the King; and so your flesh and blood is not to
    be punish'd by him. Show those things you found about her, those
    secret things- all but what she has with her. This being done,
    let the law go whistle; I warrant you.
  SHEPHERD. I will tell the King all, every word- yea, and his son's
    pranks too; who, I may say, is no honest man, neither to his
    father nor to me, to go about to make me the King's
    brother-in-law.
  CLOWN. Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you could have
    been to him; and then your blood had been the dearer by I know
    how much an ounce.
  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  Very wisely, puppies!
  SHEPHERD. Well, let us to the King. There is that in this fardel
    will make him scratch his beard.
  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  I know not what impediment this complaint may
    be to the flight of my master.
  CLOWN. Pray heartily he be at palace.
  AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  Though I am not naturally honest, I am so
    sometimes by chance. Let me pocket up my pedlar's excrement.
    [Takes off his false beard]  How now, rustics! Whither are you
    bound?
  SHEPHERD. To th' palace, an it like your worship.
  AUTOLYCUS. Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition of
    that fardel, the place of your dwelling, your names, your ages,
    of what having, breeding, and anything that is fitting to be
    known- discover.
  CLOWN. We are but plain fellows, sir.
  AUTOLYCUS. A lie: you are rough and hairy. Let me have no lying; it
    becomes none but tradesmen, and they often give us soldiers the
    lie; but we pay them for it with stamped coin, not stabbing
    steel; therefore they do not give us the lie.
  CLOWN. Your worship had like to have given us one, if you had not
    taken yourself with the manner.
  SHEPHERD. Are you a courtier, an't like you, sir?
  AUTOLYCUS. Whether it like me or no, I am a courtier. Seest thou
    not the air of the court in these enfoldings? Hath not my gait in
    it the measure of the court? Receives not thy nose court-odour
    from me? Reflect I not on thy baseness court-contempt? Think'st
    thou, for that I insinuate, that toaze from thee thy business, I
    am therefore no courtier? I am courtier cap-a-pe, and one that
    will either push on or pluck back thy business there; whereupon I
    command the to open thy affair.
  SHEPHERD. My business, sir, is to the King.
  AUTOLYCUS. What advocate hast thou to him?
  SHEPHERD. I know not, an't like you.
  CLOWN. Advocate's the court-word for a pheasant; say you have none.
  SHEPHERD. None, sir; I have no pheasant, cock nor hen.
  AUTOLYCUS. How blessed are we that are not simple men!
    Yet nature might have made me as these are,
    Therefore I will not disdain.
  CLOWN. This cannot be but a great courtier.
  SHEPHERD. His garments are rich, but he wears them not handsomely.
  CLOWN. He seems to be the more noble in being fantastical.
    A great man, I'll warrant; I know by the picking on's teeth.
  AUTOLYCUS. The fardel there? What's i' th' fardel? Wherefore that
    box?
  SHEPHERD. Sir, there lies such secrets in this fardel and box which
    none must know but the King; and which he shall know within this
    hour, if I may come to th' speech of him.
  AUTOLYCUS. Age, thou hast lost thy labour.
  SHEPHERD. Why, Sir?
  AUTOLYCUS. The King is not at the palace; he is gone aboard a new
    ship to purge melancholy and air himself; for, if thou be'st
    capable of things serious, thou must know the King is full of
    grief.
  SHEPHERD. So 'tis said, sir- about his son, that should have
    married a shepherd's daughter.
  AUTOLYCUS. If that shepherd be not in hand-fast, let him fly; the
    curses he shall have, the tortures he shall feel, will break the
    back of man, the heart of monster.
  CLOWN. Think you so, sir?
  AUTOLYCUS. Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy and
    vengeance bitter; but those that are germane to him, though
    remov'd fifty times, shall all come under the hangman- which,
    though it be great pity, yet it is neces