ll to thee.
  2. Watch. [aside] Some treason, masters. Yet stand close.
  Bora. Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
  Con. Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
  Bora. Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villany
    should be so rich; for when rich villains have need of poor ones,
    poor ones may make what price they will.
  Con. I wonder at it.
  Bora. That shows thou art unconfirm'd. Thou knowest that the
    fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to a man.
  Con. Yes, it is apparel.
  Bora. I mean the fashion.
  Con. Yes, the fashion is the fashion.
  Bora. Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But seest thou
    not what a deformed thief this fashion is?
  2. Watch. [aside] I know that Deformed. 'A bas been a vile thief
    this seven year; 'a goes up and down like a gentleman. I remember
    his name.
  Bora. Didst thou not hear somebody?
  Con. No; 'twas the vane on the house.
  Bora. Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this fashion is?
    how giddily 'a turns about all the hot-bloods between fourteen
    and five-and-thirty? sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's
    soldiers in the reechy painting, sometime like god Bel's priests
    in the old church window, sometime like the shaven Hercules in
    the smirch'd worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as
    massy as his club?
  Con. All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears out more
    apparel than the man. But art not thou thyself giddy with the
    fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling
    me of the fashion?
  Bora. Not so neither. But know that I have to-night wooed Margaret,
    the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero. She leans me
    out at her mistress' chamber window, bids me a thousand times
    good night--I tell this tale vilely; I should first tell thee how
    the Prince, Claudio and my master, planted and placed and
    possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orchard this
    amiable encounter.
  Con. And thought they Margaret was Hero?
  Bora. Two of them did, the Prince and Claudio; but the devil my
    master knew she was Margaret; and partly by his oaths, which
    first possess'd them, partly by the dark night, which did deceive
    them, but chiefly by my villany, which did confirm any slander
    that Don John had made, away went Claudio enrag'd; swore he would
    meet her, as he was appointed, next morning at the temple, and
    there, before the whole congregation, shame her with what he saw
    o'ernight and send her home again without a husband.
  2. Watch. We charge you in the Prince's name stand!
  1. Watch. Call up the right Master Constable. We have here
    recover'd the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known
    in the commonwealth.
  2. Watch. And one Deformed is one of them. I know him; 'a wears a
    lock.
  Con. Masters, masters--
  1. Watch. You'll be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you.
  Con. Masters--
  2. Watch. Never speak, we charge you. Let us obey you to go with
    us.
  Bora. We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken up of
    these men's bills.
  Con. A commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we'll obey you.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene IV.
A Room in Leonato's house.

Enter Hero, and Margaret and Ursula.

  Hero. Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her to rise.
  Urs. I will, lady.
  Hero. And bid her come hither.
  Urs. Well.                                             [Exit.]
  Marg. Troth, I think your other rebato were better.
  Hero. No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.
  Marg. By my troth, 's not so good, and I warrant your cousin will
    say so.
  Hero. My cousin's a fool, and thou art another. I'll wear none but
    this.
  Marg. I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair were a
    thought browner; and your gown's a most rare fashion, i' faith.
    I saw the Duchess of Milan's gown that they praise so.
  Hero. O, that exceeds, they say.
  Marg. By my troth, 's but a nightgown in respect of yours--
    cloth-o'-gold and cuts, and lac'd with silver, set with pearls
    down sleeves, side-sleeves, and skirts, round underborne with
    a blush tinsel. But for a fine, quaint, graceful, and excellent
    fashion, yours is worth ten on't.
  Hero. God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is exceeding heavy.
  Marg. 'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
  Hero. Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?
  Marg. Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not marriage
    honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord honourable without
    marriage? I think you would have me say, 'saving your reverence,
    a husband.' An bad thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll
    offend nobody. Is there any harm in 'the heavier for a husband'?
    None, I think, an it be the right husband and the right wife.
    Otherwise 'tis light, and not heavy. Ask my Lady Beatrice else.
    Here she comes.

                               Enter Beatrice.

  Hero. Good morrow, coz.
  Beat. Good morrow, sweet Hero.
  Hero. Why, how now? Do you speak in the sick tune?
  Beat. I am out of all other tune, methinks.
  Marg. Clap's into 'Light o' love.' That goes without a burden. Do
    you sing it, and I'll dance it.
  Beat. Yea, 'Light o' love' with your heels! then, if your husband
    have stables enough, you'll see he shall lack no barnes.
  Marg. O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.
  Beat. 'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; 'tis time you were ready.
    By my troth, I am exceeding ill. Hey-ho!
  Marg. For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?
  Beat. For the letter that begins them all, H.
  Marg. Well, an you be not turn'd Turk, there's no more sailing by
    the star.
  Beat. What means the fool, trow?
  Marg. Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire!
  Hero. These gloves the Count sent me, they are an excellent
    perfume.
  Beat. I am stuff'd, cousin; I cannot smell.
  Marg. A maid, and stuff'd! There's goodly catching of cold.
  Beat. O, God help me! God help me! How long have you profess'd
    apprehension?
  Marg. Ever since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?
  Beat. It is not seen enough. You should wear it in your cap. By my
    troth, I am sick.
  Marg. Get you some of this distill'd carduus benedictus and lay it
    to your heart. It is the only thing for a qualm.
  Hero. There thou prick'st her with a thistle.
  Beat. Benedictus? why benedictus? You have some moral in this
    'benedictus.'
  Marg. Moral? No, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I meant
    plain holy thistle. You may think perchance that I think you are
    in love. Nay, by'r lady, I am not such a fool to think what I
    list; nor I list not to think what I can; nor indeed I cannot
    think, if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in
    love, or that you will be in love, or that you can be in love.
    Yet Benedick was such another, and now is he become a man. He
    swore he would never marry; and yet now in despite of his heart
    he eats his meat without grudging; and how you may be converted I
    know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.
  Beat. What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?
  Marg. Not a false gallop.

                         Enter Ursula.

  Urs. Madam, withdraw. The Prince, the Count, Signior Benedick, Don
    John, and all the gallants of the town are come to fetch you to
    church.
  Hero. Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
                                                       [Exeunt.]




Scene V.
The hall in Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato and the Constable [Dogberry] and the Headborough [verges].

  Leon. What would you with me, honest neighbour?
  Dog. Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you that decerns
    you nearly.
  Leon. Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
  Dog. Marry, this it is, sir.
  Verg. Yes, in truth it is, sir.
  Leon. What is it, my good friends?
  Dog. Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter--an old
    man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, I would
    desire they were; but, in faith, honest as the skin between his
    brows.
  Verg. Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living that is an
    old man and no honester than I.
  Dog. Comparisons are odorous. Palabras, neighbour Verges.
  Leon. Neighbours, you are tedious.
  Dog. It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the poor Duke's
    officers; but truly, for mine own part, if I were as tedious as a
    king, I could find in my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
  Leon. All thy tediousness on me, ah?
  Dog. Yea, in 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for I hear as
    good exclamation on your worship as of any man in the city; and
    though I be but a poor man, I am glad to hear it.
  Verg. And so am I.
  Leon. I would fain know what you have to say.
  Verg. Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your worship's
    presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in
    Messina.
  Dog. A good old man, sir; he will be talking. As they say, 'When
    the age is in, the wit is out.' God help us! it is a world to
    see! Well said, i' faith, neighbour Verges. Well, God's a good
    man. An two men ride of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest
    soul, i' faith, sir, by my troth he is, as ever broke bread; but
    God is to be worshipp'd; all men are not alike, alas, good
    neighbour!
  Leon. Indeed, neighbour, he comes too short of you.
  Dog. Gifts that God gives.
  Leon. I must leave you.
  Dog. One word, sir. Our watch, sir, have indeed comprehended two
    aspicious persons, and we would have them this morning examined
    before your worship.
  Leon. Take their examination yourself and bring it me. I am now in
    great haste, as it may appear unto you.
  Dog. It shall be suffigance.
  Leon. Drink some wine ere you go. Fare you well.

                       [Enter a Messenger.]

  Mess. My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to her
    husband.
  Leon. I'll wait upon them. I am ready.
                                 [Exeunt Leonato and Messenger.]
  Dog. Go, good partner, go get you to Francis Seacoal; bid him bring
    his pen and inkhorn to the jail. We are now to examination these
    men.
  Verg. And we must do it wisely.
  Dog. We will spare for no wit, I warrant you. Here's that shall
    drive some of them to a non-come. Only get the learned writer to
    set down our excommunication, and meet me at the jail.
                                                       [Exeunt.]




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBáRSHIP.>>



ACT IV. Scene I.
A church.

Enter Don Pedro, [John the] Bastard, Leonato, Friar [Francis], Claudio,
Benedick, Hero, Beatrice, [and Attendants].

  Leon. Come, Friar Francis, be brief. Only to the plain form of
    marriage, and you shall recount their particular duties
    afterwards.
  Friar. You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady?
  Claud. No.
  Leon. To be married to her. Friar, you come to marry her.
  Friar. Lady, you come hither to be married to this count?
  Hero. I do.
  Friar. If either of you know any inward impediment why you should
    not be conjoined, I charge you on your souls to utter it.
  Claud. Know you any, Hero?
  Hero. None, my lord.
  Friar. Know you any, Count?
  Leon. I dare make his answer--none.
  Claud. O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do, not
    knowing what they do!
  Bene. How now? interjections? Why then, some be of laughing, as,
    ah, ha, he!
  Claud. Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave:
    Will you with free and unconstrained soul
    Give me this maid your daughter?
  Leon. As freely, son, as God did give her me.
  Claud. And what have I to give you back whose worth
    May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
  Pedro. Nothing, unless you render her again.
  Claud. Sweet Prince, you learn me noble thankfulness.
    There, Leonato, take her back again.
    Give not this rotten orange to your friend.
    She's but the sign and semblance of her honour.
    Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
    O, what authority and show of truth
    Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
    Comes not that blood as modest evidence
    To witness simple virtue, Would you not swear,
    All you that see her, that she were a maid
    By these exterior shows? But she is none:
    She knows the heat of a luxurious bed;
    Her blush is guiltin