                                   Exeunt




SCENE II.
The sea-coast

Enter VIOLA, a CAPTAIN, and SAILORS

  VIOLA. What country, friends, is this?
  CAPTAIN. This is Illyria, lady.
  VIOLA. And what should I do in Illyria?
    My brother he is in Elysium.
    Perchance he is not drown'd- what think you, sailors?
  CAPTAIN. It is perchance that you yourself were saved.
  VIOLA. O my poor brother! and so perchance may he be.
  CAPTAIN. True, madam, and, to comfort you with chance,
    Assure yourself, after our ship did split,
    When you, and those poor number saved with you,
    Hung on our driving boat, I saw your brother,
    Most provident in peril, bind himself-
    Courage and hope both teaching him the practice-
    To a strong mast that liv'd upon the sea;
    Where, like Arion on the dolphin's back,
    I saw him hold acquaintance with the waves
    So long as I could see.
  VIOLA. For saying so, there's gold.
    Mine own escape unfoldeth to my hope,
    Whereto thy speech serves for authority,
    The like of him. Know'st thou this country?
  CAPTAIN. Ay, madam, well; for I was bred and born
    Not three hours' travel from this very place.
  VIOLA. Who governs here?
  CAPTAIN. A noble duke, in nature as in name.
  VIOLA. What is his name?
  CAPTAIN. Orsino.
  VIOLA. Orsino! I have heard my father name him.
    He was a bachelor then.
  CAPTAIN. And so is now, or was so very late;
    For but a month ago I went from hence,
    And then 'twas fresh in murmur- as, you know,
    What great ones do the less will prattle of-
    That he did seek the love of fair Olivia.
  VIOLA. What's she?
  CAPTAIN. A virtuous maid, the daughter of a count
    That died some twelvemonth since, then leaving her
    In the protection of his son, her brother,
    Who shortly also died; for whose dear love,
    They say, she hath abjur'd the company
    And sight of men.
  VIOLA. O that I serv'd that lady,
    And might not be delivered to the world,
    Till I had made mine own occasion mellow,
    What my estate is!
  CAPTAIN. That were hard to compass,
    Because she will admit no kind of suit-
    No, not the Duke's.
  VIOLA. There is a fair behaviour in thee, Captain;
    And though that nature with a beauteous wall
    Doth oft close in pollution, yet of thee
    I will believe thou hast a mind that suits
    With this thy fair and outward character.
    I prithee, and I'll pay thee bounteously,
    Conceal me what I am, and be my aid
    For such disguise as haply shall become
    The form of my intent. I'll serve this duke:
    Thou shalt present me as an eunuch to him;
    It may be worth thy pains, for I can sing
    And speak to him in many sorts of music,
    That will allow me very worth his service.
    What else may hap to time I will commit;
    Only shape thou silence to my wit.
  CAPTAIN. Be you his eunuch and your mute I'll be;
    When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see.
  VIOLA. I thank thee. Lead me on.                        Exeunt




SCENE III.
OLIVIA'S house

Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA

  SIR TOBY. What a plague means my niece to take the death of her
    brother thus? I am sure care's an enemy to life.
  MARIA. By my troth, Sir Toby, you must come in earlier o' nights;
    your cousin, my lady, takes great exceptions to your ill hours.
  SIR TOBY. Why, let her except before excepted.
  MARIA. Ay, but you must confine yourself within the modest limits
    of order.
  SIR TOBY. Confine! I'll confine myself no finer than I am. These
    clothes are good enough to drink in, and so be these boots too;
    an they be not, let them hang themselves in their own straps.
  MARIA. That quaffing and drinking will undo you; I heard my lady
    talk of it yesterday, and of a foolish knight that you brought in
    one night here to be her wooer.
  SIR TOBY. Who? Sir Andrew Aguecheek?
  MARIA. Ay, he.
  SIR TOBY. He's as tall a man as any's in Illyria.
  MARIA. What's that to th' purpose?
  SIR TOBY. Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.
  MARIA. Ay, but he'll have but a year in all these ducats; he's a
    very fool and a prodigal.
  SIR TOBY. Fye that you'll say so! He plays o' th' viol-de-gamboys,
    and speaks three or four languages word for word without book,
    and hath all the good gifts of nature.
  MARIA. He hath indeed, almost natural; for, besides that he's a
    fool, he's a great quarreller; and but that he hath the gift of a
    coward to allay the gust he hath in quarrelling, 'tis thought
    among the prudent he would quickly have the gift of a grave.
  SIR TOBY. By this hand, they are scoundrels and subtractors that
    say so of him. Who are they?
  MARIA. They that add, moreover, he's drunk nightly in your company.
  SIR TOBY. With drinking healths to my niece; I'll drink to her as
    long as there is a passage in my throat and drink in Illyria.
    He's a coward and a coystrill that will not drink to my niece
    till his brains turn o' th' toe like a parish-top. What, wench!
    Castiliano vulgo! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface.

                    Enter SIR ANDREW AGUECHEEK

  AGUECHEEK. Sir Toby Belch! How now, Sir Toby Belch!
  SIR TOBY. Sweet Sir Andrew!
  AGUECHEEK. Bless you, fair shrew.
  MARIA. And you too, sir.
  SIR TOBY. Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.
  AGUECHEEK. What's that?
  SIR TOBY. My niece's chambermaid.
  AGUECHEEK. Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.
  MARIA. My name is Mary, sir.
  AGUECHEEK. Good Mistress Mary Accost-
  SIR Toby. You mistake, knight. 'Accost' is front her, board her,
    woo her, assail her.
  AGUECHEEK. By my troth, I would not undertake her in this company.
    Is that the meaning of 'accost'?
  MARIA. Fare you well, gentlemen.
  SIR TOBY. An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst never
    draw sword again!
  AGUECHEE