Enter Lear, Kent, and Fool.

  Lear. Go you before to Gloucester with these letters. Acquaint my
     daughter no further with anything you know than comes from her
     demand out of the letter. If your diligence be not speedy, I
     shall be there afore you.
  Kent. I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered your letter.
Exit.
  Fool. If a man's brains were in's heels, were't not in danger of
     kibes?
  Lear. Ay, boy.
  Fool. Then I prithee be merry. Thy wit shall ne'er go slip-shod.
  Lear. Ha, ha, ha!
  Fool. Shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly; for though
     she's as like this as a crab's like an apple, yet I can tell
     what I can tell.
  Lear. What canst tell, boy?
  Fool. She'll taste as like this as a crab does to a crab. Thou
     canst tell why one's nose stands i' th' middle on's face?
  Lear. No.
  Fool. Why, to keep one's eyes of either side's nose, that what a
     man cannot smell out, 'a may spy into.
  Lear. I did her wrong.
  Fool. Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell?
  Lear. No.
  Fool. Nor I neither; but I can tell why a snail has a house.
  Lear. Why?
  Fool. Why, to put's head in; not to give it away to his daughters,
     and leave his horns without a case.
  Lear. I will forget my nature. So kind a father!- Be my horses
     ready?
  Fool. Thy asses are gone about 'em. The reason why the seven stars
     are no moe than seven is a pretty reason.
  Lear. Because they are not eight?
  Fool. Yes indeed. Thou wouldst make a good fool.
  Lear. To tak't again perforce! Monster ingratitude!
  Fool. If thou wert my fool, nuncle, I'ld have thee beaten for being
     old before thy time.
  Lear. How's that?
  Fool. Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been wise.
  Lear. O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven!
     Keep me in temper; I would not be mad!

                         [Enter a Gentleman.]

     How now? Are the horses ready?
  Gent. Ready, my lord.
  Lear. Come, boy.
  Fool. She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
     Shall not be a maid long, unless things be cut shorter
                                                         Exeunt.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT II. Scene I.
A court within the Castle of the Earl of Gloucester.

Enter [Edmund the] Bastard and Curan, meeting.

  Edm. Save thee, Curan.
  Cur. And you, sir. I have been with your father, and given him
     notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan his Duchess will be
     here with him this night.
  Edm. How comes that?
  Cur. Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad- I mean the
     whisper'd ones, for they are yet but ear-kissing arguments?
  Edm. Not I. Pray you, what are they?
  Cur. Have you heard of no likely wars toward 'twixt the two Dukes
     of Cornwall and Albany?
  Edm. Not a word.
  Cur. You may do, then, in time. Fare you well, sir.      Exit.
  Edm. The Duke be here to-night? The better! best!
     This weaves itself perforce into my business.
     My father hath set guard to take my brother;
     And I have one thing, of a queasy question,
     Which I must act. Briefness and fortune, work!
     Brother, a word! Descend! Brother, I say!

                             Enter Edgar.

     My father watches. O sir, fly this place!
     Intelligence is given where you are hid.
     You have now the good advantage of the night.
     Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall?
     He's coming hither; now, i' th' night, i' th' haste,
     And Regan with him. Have you nothing said
     Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany?
     Advise yourself.
  Edg. I am sure on't, not a word.
  Edm. I hear my father coming. Pardon me!
     In cunning I must draw my sword upon you.
     Draw, seem to defend yourself; now quit you well.-
     Yield! Come before my father. Light, ho, here!
     Fly, brother.- Torches, torches!- So farewell.
                                                     Exit Edgar.
     Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion
     Of my more fierce endeavour. [Stabs his arm.] I have seen
        drunkards
     Do more than this in sport.- Father, father!-
     Stop, stop! No help?

             Enter Gloucester, and Servants with torches.

  Glou. Now, Edmund, where's the villain?
  Edm. Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out,
     Mumbling of wicked charms, conjuring the moon
     To stand 's auspicious mistress.
  Glou. But where is he?
  Edm. Look, sir, I bleed.
  Glou. Where is the villain, Edmund?
  Edm. Fled this way, sir. When by no means he could-
  Glou. Pursue him, ho! Go after.        [Exeunt some Servants].
     By no means what?
  Edm. Persuade me to the murther of your lordship;
     But that I told him the revenging gods
     'Gainst parricides did all their thunders bend;
     Spoke with how manifold and strong a bond
     The child was bound to th' father- sir, in fine,
     Seeing how loathly opposite I stood
     To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion
     With his prepared sword he charges home
     My unprovided body, lanch'd mine arm;
     But when he saw my best alarum'd spirits,
     Bold in the quarrel'“ right, rous'd to th' encounter,
     Or whether gasted by the noise I made,
     Full suddenly he fled.
  Glou. Let him fly far.
     Not in this land shall he remain uncaught;
     And found- dispatch. The noble Duke my master,
     My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night.
     By his authority I will proclaim it
     That he which find, him shall deserve our thanks,
     Bringing the murderous caitiff to the stake;
     He that conceals him, death.
  Edm. When I dissuaded him from his intent
     And found him pight to do it, with curst speech
     I threaten'd to discover him. He replied,
     'Thou unpossessing bastard, dost thou think,
     If I would stand against thee, would the reposal
     Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee
     Make thy words faith'd? No. What I should deny
     (As this I would; ay, though thou didst produce
     My very character), I'ld turn it all
     To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practice;
     And thou must make a dullard of the world,
     If they not thought the profits of my death
     Were very pregnant and potential spurs
     To make thee seek it.'
  Glou. Strong and fast'ned villain!
     Would he deny his letter? I never got him.
                                                  Tucket within.
     Hark, the Duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes.
     All ports I'll bar; the villain shall not scape;
     The Duke must grant me that. Besides, his picture
     I will send far and near, that all the kingdom
     May have due note of him, and of my land,
     Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means
     To make thee capable.

                Enter Cornwall, Regan, and Attendants.

  Corn. How now, my noble friend? Since I came hither
     (Which I can call but now) I have heard strange news.
  Reg. If it be true, all vengeance comes too short
     Which can pursue th' offender. How dost, my lord?
  Glou. O madam, my old heart is crack'd, it's crack'd!
  Reg. What, did my father's godson seek your life?
     He whom my father nam'd? Your Edgar?
  Glou. O lady, lady, shame would have it hid!
  Reg. Was he not companion with the riotous knights
     That tend upon my father?
  Glou. I know not, madam. 'Tis too bad, too bad!
  Edm. Yes, madam, he was of that consort.
  Reg. No marvel then though he were ill affected.
     'Tis they have put him on the old man's death,
     To have th' expense and waste of his revenues.
     I have this present evening from my sister
     Been well inform'd of them, and with such cautions
     That, if they come to sojourn at my house,
     I'll not be there.
  Corn. Nor I, assure thee, Regan.
     Edmund, I hear that you have shown your father
     A childlike office.
  Edm. 'Twas my duty, sir.
  Glou. He did bewray his practice, and receiv'd
     This hurt you see, striving to apprehend him.
  Corn. Is he pursued?
  Glou. Ay, my good lord.
  Corn. If he be taken, he shall never more
     Be fear'd of doing harm. Make your own purpose,
     How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
     Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant
     So much commend itself, you shall be ours.
     Natures of such deep trust we shall much need;
     You we first seize on.
  Edm. I shall serve you, sir,
     Truly, however else.
  Glou. For him I thank your Grace.
  Corn. You know not why we came to visit you-
  Reg. Thus out of season, threading dark-ey'd night.
     Occasions, noble Gloucester, of some poise,
     Wherein we must have use of your advice.
     Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister,
     Of differences, which I best thought it fit
     To answer from our home. The several messengers
     From hence attend dispatch. Our good old friend,
     Lay comforts to your bosom, and bestow
     Your needful counsel to our business,
     Which craves the instant use.
  Glou. I serve you, madam.
     Your Graces are right welcome.
                                               Exeunt. Flourish.




Scene II.
Before Gloucester's Castle.

Enter Kent and [Oswald the] Steward, severally.

  Osw. Good dawning to thee, friend. Art of this house?
  Kent. Ay.
  Osw. Where may we set our horses?
  Kent. I' th' mire.
  Osw. Prithee, if thou lov'st me, tell me.
  Kent. I love thee not.
  Osw. Why then, I care not for thee.
  Kent. If I had thee in Lipsbury Pinfold, I would make thee care for
     me.
  Osw. Why dost thou use me thus? I know thee not.
  Kent. Fellow, I know thee.
  Osw. What dost thou know me for?
  Kent. A knave; a rascal; an eater of broken meats; a base, proud,
     shallow, beggarly, three-suited, hundred-pound, filthy,
     worsted-stocking knave; a lily-liver'd, action-taking, whoreson,
     glass-gazing, superserviceable, finical rogue;
     one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a bawd in way of
     good service, and art nothing but the composition of a knave,
     beggar, coward, pander, and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch;
     one whom I will beat into clamorous whining, if thou deny the
     least syllable of thy addition.
  Osw. Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail on one
     that's neither known of thee nor knows thee!
  Kent. What a brazen-fac'd varlet art thou, to deny thou knowest me!
     Is it two days ago since I beat thee and tripp'd up thy heels
     before the King? [Draws his sword.] Draw, you rogue! for, though
     it be night, yet the moon shines. I'll make a sop o' th'
     moonshine o' you. Draw, you whoreson cullionly barbermonger!
     draw!
  Osw. Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
  Kent. Draw, you rascal! You come with letters against the King, and
     take Vanity the puppet's part against the royalty of her father.
     Draw, you rogue, or I'll so carbonado your shanks! Draw, you
     rascal! Come your ways!
  Osw. Help, ho! murther! help!
  Kent. Strike, you slave! Stand, rogue! Stand, you neat slave!
     Strike!                                        [Beats him.]
  Osw. Help, ho! murther! murther!

      Enter Edmund, with his rapier drawn, Gloucester, Cornwall,
                           Regan, Servants.

  Edm. How now? What's the matter?                 Parts [them].
  Kent. With you, goodman boy, an you please! Come, I'll flesh ye!
     Come on, young master!
  Glou. Weapons? arms? What's the matter here?
  Corn. Keep peace, upon your lives!
     He dies that strikes again. What is the matter?
  Reg. The messengers from our sister and the King
  Corn. What is your difference? Speak.
  Osw. I am scarce in breath, my lord.
  Kent. No marvel, you have so bestirr'd your valour. You cowardly
     rascal, nature disclaims in thee; a tailor made thee.
  Corn. Thou art a strange fellow. A tailor make a man?
  Kent. Ay, a tailor, sir. A stonecutter or a painter could not have
     made him so ill, though he had been but two hours at the trade.
  Corn. Speak yet, how grew your quarrel?
  Osw. This ancient ruffian, sir, whose life I have spar'd
     At suit of his grey beard-
  Kent. Thou whoreson zed! thou unnecessary letter! My lord, if
     you'll give me leave, I will tread this unbolted villain into
     mortar and daub the walls of a jakes with him. 'Spare my grey
     beard,' you wagtail?
  Corn. Peace, sirrah!
     You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
  Kent. Yes, sir, but anger hath a privilege.
  Corn. Why art thou angry?
  Kent. That such a slave as this should wear a sword,
     Who wears no honesty. Such smiling rogues as these,
     Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain
     Which are too intrinse t' unloose; smooth every passion
     That in the natures of their lords rebel,
     Bring oil to fire, snow to their colder moods;
     Renege, affirm, and turn their halcyon beaks
     With every gale and vary of their masters,
     Knowing naught (like dogs) but following.
     A plague upon your epileptic visage!
     Smile you my speeches, as I were a fool?
     Goose, an I had you upon Sarum Plain,
     I'ld drive ye cackling home to Camelot.
  Corn. What, art thou mad, old fellow?
  Glou. How fell you out? Say that.
  Kent. No contraries hold more antipathy
     Than I and such a knave.
  Corn. Why dost thou call him knave? What is his fault?
  Kent. His countenance likes me not.
  Corn. No more perchance does mine, or his, or hers.
  Kent. Sir, 'tis my occupation to be plain.
     I have seen better faces in my time
     Than stands on any shoulder that I see
     Before me at this instant.
  Corn. This is some fellow
     Who, having been prais'd for bluntness, doth affect
     A saucy roughness, and constrains the garb
     Quite from his nature. He cannot flatter, he!
     An honest mind and plain- he must speak truth!
     An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain.
     These kind of knaves I know which in this plainness
     Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends
     Than twenty silly-ducking observants
     That stretch their duties nicely.
  Kent. Sir, in good faith, in sincere verity,
     Under th' allowance of your great aspect,
     Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire
     On flickering Phoebus' front-
  Corn. What mean'st by this?
  Kent. To go out of my dialect, which you discommend so much. I
     know, sir, I am no flatterer. He that beguil'd you in a plain
     accent was a plain knave, which, for my part, I will not be,
     though I should win your displeasure to entreat me to't.
  Corn. What was th' offence you gave him?
  Osw. I never gave him any.
     It pleas'd the King his master very late
     To strike at me, upon his misconstruction;
     When he, conjunct, and flattering his displeasure,
     Tripp'd me behind; being down, insulted, rail'd
     And put upon him such a deal of man
     That worthied him, got praises of the King
     For him attempting who was self-subdu'd;
     And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,
     Drew on me here again.
  Kent. None of these rogues and cowards
     But Ajax is their fool.
  Corn. Fetch forth the stocks!
     You stubborn ancient knave, you reverent braggart,
     We'll teach you-
  Kent. Sir, I am too old to learn.
     Call not your stocks for me. I serve the King;
     On whose employment I was sent to you.
     You shall do small respect, show too bold malice
     Against the grace and person of my master,
     Stocking his messenger.
  Corn. Fetch forth the stocks! As I have life and honour,
     There shall he sit till noon.
  Reg. Till noon? Till night, my lord, and all night too!
  Kent. Why, madam, if I were your father's dog,
     You should not use me so.
  Reg. Sir, being his knave, I will.
  Corn. This is a fellow of the selfsame colour
     Our sister speaks of. Come, bring away the stocks!
                                             Stocks brought out.
  Glou. Let me beseech your Grace not to do so.
     His fault is much, and the good King his master
     Will check him for't. Your purpos'd low correction
     Is such as basest and contemn'dest wretches
     For pilf'rings and most common trespasses
     Are punish'd with. The King must take it ill
     That he, so slightly valued in his messenger,
     Should have him thus restrain'd.
  Corn. I'll answer that.
  Reg. My sister may receive it much more worse,
     To have her gentleman abus'd, assaulted,
     For following her affairs. Put in his legs.-
                                    [Kent is put in the stocks.]
     Come, my good lord, away.
                           Exeunt [all but Gloucester and Kent].
  Glou. I am sorry for thee, friend. 'Tis the Duke's pleasure,
     Whose disposition, all the world well knows,
     Will not be rubb'd nor stopp'd. I'll entreat for thee.
  Kent. Pray do not, sir. I have watch'd and travell'd hard.
     Some time I shall sleep out, the rest I'll whistle.
     A good man's fortune may grow out at heels.
     Give you good morrow!
  Glou. The Duke 's to blame in this; 'twill be ill taken.
Exit.
  Kent. Good King, that must approve the common saw,
     Thou out of heaven's benediction com'st
     To the warm sun!
     Approach, thou beacon to this under globe,
     That by thy comfortable beams I may
     Peruse this letter. Nothing almost sees miracles
     But misery. I know 'tis from Cordelia,
     Who hath most fortunately been inform'd
     Of my obscured course- and [reads] 'shall find time
     From this enormous state, seeking to give
     Losses their remedies'- All weary and o'erwatch'd,
     Take vantage, heavy eyes, not to behold
     This shameful lodging.
     Fortune, good night; smile once more, turn thy wheel.
                                                         Sleeps.




Scene III.
The open country.

Enter Edgar.

  Edg. I heard myself proclaim'd,
     And by the happy hollow of a tree
     Escap'd the hunt. No port is free, no place
     That guard and most unusual vigilance
     Does not attend my taking. Whiles I may scape,
     I will preserve myself; and am bethought
     To take the basest and most poorest shape
     That ever penury, in contempt of man,
     Brought near to beast. My face I'll grime with filth,
     Blanket my loins, elf all my hair in knots,
     And with presented nakedness outface
     The winds and persecutions of the sky.
     The country gives me proof and precedent
     Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices,
     Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms
     Pins, wooden pricks, nails, sprigs of rosemary;
     And with this horrible object, from low farms,
     Poor pelting villages, sheepcotes, and mills,
     Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
     Enforce their charity. 'Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!'
     That's something yet! Edgar I nothing am.             Exit.




Scene IV.
Before Gloucester's Castle; Kent in the stocks.

Enter Lear, Fool, and Gentleman.

  Lear. 'Tis strange that they should so depart from home,
     And not send back my messenger.
  Gent. As I learn'd,
     The night before there was no purpose in them
     Of this remove.
  Kent. Hail to thee, noble master!
  Lear. Ha!
     Mak'st thou this shame thy pastime?
  Kent. No, my lord.
  Fool. Ha, ha! look! he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied by the
     head, dogs and bears by th' neck, monkeys by th' loins, and men
     by th' legs. When a man's over-lusty at legs, then he wears
     wooden nether-stocks.
  Lear. What's he that hath so much thy place mistook
     To set thee here?
  Kent. It is both he and