IR TOBY. My niece's chambermaid.
  AGUECHEEK. Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.
  MARIA. My name is Mary, sir.
  AGUECHEEK. Good Mistress Mary Accost-
  SIR Toby. You mistake, knight. 'Accost' is front her, board her,
    woo her, assail her.
  AGUECHEEK. By my troth, I would not undertake her in this company.
    Is that the meaning of 'accost'?
  MARIA. Fare you well, gentlemen.
  SIR TOBY. An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst never
    draw sword again!
  AGUECHEEK. An you part so, mistress, I would I might never draw
    sword again. Fair lady, do you think you have fools in hand?
  MARIA. Sir, I have not you by th' hand.
  AGUECHEEK. Marry, but you shall have; and here's my hand.
  MARIA. Now, sir, thought is free. I pray you, bring your hand to
    th' buttry-bar and let it drink.
  AGUECHEEK. Wherefore, sweetheart? What's your metaphor?
  MARIA. It's dry, sir.
  AGUECHEEK. Why, I think so; I am not such an ass but I can keep my
    hand dry. But what's your jest?
  MARIA. A dry jest, sir.
  AGUECHEEK. Are you full of them?
  MARIA. Ay, sir, I have them at my fingers' ends; marry, now I let
    go your hand, I am barren.                        Exit MARIA
  SIR TOBY. O knight, thou lack'st a cup of canary! When did I see
    thee so put down?
  AGUECHEEK. Never in your life, I think; unless you see canary put
    me down. Methinks sometimes I have no more wit than a Christian
    or an ordinary man has; but I am great eater of beef, and I
    believe that does harm to my wit.
  SIR TOBY. No question.
  AGUECHEEK. An I thought that, I'd forswear it. I'll ride home
    to-morrow, Sir Toby.
  SIR TOBY. Pourquoi, my dear knight?
  AGUECHEEK. What is 'pourquoi'- do or not do? I would I had bestowed
    that time in the tongues that I have in fencing, dancing, and
    bear-baiting. Oh, had I but followed the arts!
  SIR TOBY. Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.
  AGUECHEEK. Why, would that have mended my hair?
  SIR TOBY. Past question; for thou seest it will not curl by nature.
  AGUECHEEK. But it becomes me well enough, does't not?
  SIR TOBY. Excellent; it hangs like flax on a distaff, and I hope to
    see a huswife take thee between her legs and spin it off.
  AGUECHEEK. Faith, I'll home to-morrow, Sir Toby. Your niece will
    not be seen, or if she be, it's four to one she'll none of me;
    the Count himself here hard by woos her.
  SIR TOBY. She'll none o' th' Count; she'll not match above her
    degree, neither in estate, years, nor wit; I have heard her
    swear't. Tut, there's life in't, man.
  AGUECHEEK. I'll stay a month longer. I am a fellow o' th' strangest
    mind i' th' world; I delight in masques and revels sometimes
    altogether.
  SIR TOBY. Art thou good at these kickshawses, knight?
  AGUECHEEK. As any man in Illyria, whatsoever he be, under the
    degree of my betters; and yet I will not compare with an old man.
  SIR TOBY. What is thy excellence in a galliard, knight?
  AGUECHEEK. Faith, I can cut a caper.
  SIR TOBY. And I can cut the mutton to't.
  AGUECHEEK. And I think I have the back-trick simply as strong as
    any man in Illyria.
  SIR TOBY. Wherefore are these things hid? Wherefore have these
    gifts a curtain before 'em? Are they like to take dust, like
    Mistress Mall's picture? Why dost thou not go to church in a
    galliard and come home in a coranto? My very walk should be a
    jig; I would not so much as maie water but in a sink-a-pace. What
    dost thou mean? Is it a world to hide virtues in? I did think, by
    the excellent constitution of thy leg, it was form'd under the
    star of a galliard.
  AGUECHEEK. Ay, 'tis strong, and it does indifferent well in
    flame-colour'd stock. Shall we set about some revels?
  SIR TOBY. What shall we do else? Were we not born under Taurus?
  AGUECHEEK. Taurus? That's sides and heart.
  SIR TOBY. No, sir; it is legs and thighs. Let me see the caper. Ha,
    higher! Ha, ha, excellent!                            Exeunt




SCENE IV.
The DUKE'S palace

Enter VALENTINE, and VIOLA in man's attire

  VALENTINE. If the Duke continue these favours towards you, Cesario,
    you are like to be much advanc'd; he hath known you but three
    days, and already you are no stranger.
  VIOLA. You either fear his humour or my negligence, that you call
    in question the continuance of his love. Is he inconstant, sir,
    in his favours?
  VALENTINE. No, believe me.

                  Enter DUKE, CURIO, and ATTENDANTS

  VIOLA. I thank you. Here comes the Count.
  DUKE. Who saw Cesario, ho?
  VIOLA. On your attendance, my lord, here.
  DUKE. Stand you awhile aloof. Cesario,
    Thou know'st no less but all; I have unclasp'd
    To thee the book even of my secret soul.
    Therefore, good youth, address thy gait unto her;
    Be not denied access, stand at her doors,
    And tell them there thy fixed foot shall grow
    Till thou have audience.
  VIOLA. Sure, my noble lord,
    If she be so abandon'd to her sorrow
    As it is spoke, she never will admit me.
  DUKE. Be clamorous and leap all civil bounds,
    Rather than make unprofited return.
  VIOLA. Say I do speak with her, my lord, what then?
  DUKE. O, then unfold the passion of my love,
    Surprise her with discourse of my dear faith!
    It shall become thee well to act my woes:
    She will attend it better in thy youth
    Than in a nuncio's of more grave aspect.
  VIOLA. I think not so, my lord.
  DUKE. Dear lad, believe it,
    For they shall yet belie thy happy years
    That say thou art a man: Diana's lip
    Is not more smooth and rubious; thy small pipe
    Is as the maiden's organ, shrill and sound,
    And all is semblative a woman's part.
    I know thy constellation is right apt
    For this affair. Some four or five attend him-
    All, if you will, for I myself am best
    When least in company. Prosper well in this,
    And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord
    To call his fortunes thine.
  VIOLA. I'll do my best
    To woo your lady. [Aside] Yet, a barful strife!
    Whoe'er I woo, myself would be his wife.




SCENE V.
OLIVIA'S house

Enter MARIA and CLOWN

  MARIA. Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I will not open
    my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in way of thy excuse; my
    lady will hang thee for thy absence.
  CLOWN. Let her hang me. He that is well hang'd in this world needs
    to fear no colours.
  MARIA. Make that good.
  CLOWN. 