all
    fair. She is drown'd already, sir, with salt water, though I seem
    to drown her remembrance again with more.
  ANTONIO. Pardon me, sir, your bad entertainment.
  SEBASTIAN. O good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.
  ANTONIO. If you will not murder me for my love, let me be your
    servant.
  SEBASTIAN. If you will not undo what you have done- that is, kill
    him whom you have recover'd-desire it not. Fare ye well at once;
    my bosom is full of kindness, and I am yet so near the manners of
    my mother that, upon the least occasion more, mine eyes will tell
    tales of me. I am bound to the Count Orsino's court. Farewell.
 Exit
  ANTONIO. The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!
    I have many cnemies in Orsino's court,
    Else would I very shortly see thee there.
    But come what may, I do adore thee so
    That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.            Exit




SCENE II.
A street

Enter VIOLA and MALVOLIO at several doors

  MALVOLIO. Were you not ev'n now with the Countess Olivia?
  VIOLA. Even now, sir; on a moderate pace I have since arriv'd but
    hither.
  MALVOLIO. She returns this ring to you, sir; you might have saved
    me my pains, to have taken it away yourself. She adds, moreover,
    that you should put your lord into a desperate assurance she will
    none of him. And one thing more: that you be never so hardy to
    come again in his affairs, unless it be to report your lord's
    taking of this. Receive it so.
  VIOLA. She took the ring of me; I'll none of it.
  MALVOLIO. Come, sir, you peevishly threw it to her; and her will is
    it should be so return'd. If it be worth stooping for, there it
    lies in your eye; if not, be it his that finds it.
 Exit
  VIOLA. I left no ring with her; what means this lady?
    Fortune forbid my outside have not charm'd her!
    She made good view of me; indeed, so much
    That methought her eyes had lost her tongue,
    For she did speak in starts distractedly.
    She loves me, sure: the cunning of her passion
    Invites me in this churlish messenger.
    None of my lord's ring! Why, he sent her none.
    I am the man. If it be so- as 'tis-
    Poor lady, she were better love a dream.
    Disguise, I see thou art a wickedness
    Wherein the pregnant enemy does much.
    How easy is it for the proper-false
    In women's waxen hearts to set their forms!
    Alas, our frailty is the cause, not we!
    For such as we are made of, such we be.
    How will this fadge? My master loves her dearly,
    And I, poor monster, fond as much on him;
    And she, mistaken, seems to dote on me.
    What will become of this? As I am man,
    My state is desperate for my master's love;
    As I am woman- now alas the day!-
    What thriftless sighs shall poor Olivia breathe!
    O Time, thou must untangle this, not I;
    It is too hard a knot for me t' untie!                  Exit




SCENE III.
OLIVIA'S house

Enter SIR TOBY and SIR ANDREW

  SIR TOBY. Approach, Sir Andrew. Not to be abed after midnight is to
    be up betimes; and 'diluculo surgere' thou know'st-
  AGUECHEEK. Nay, by my troth, I know not; but I know to be up late
    is to be up late.
  SIR TOBY. A false conclusion! I hate it as an unfill'd can. To be
    up after midnight and to go to bed then is early; so that to go
    to bed after midnight is to go to bed betimes. Does not our lives
    consist of the four elements?
  AGUECHEEK. Faith, so they say; but I think it rather consists of
    eating and drinking.
  SIR TOBY. Th'art a scholar; let us therefore eat and drink.
    Marian, I say! a stoup of wine.

                          Enter CLOWN

  AGUECHEEK. Here comes the fool, i' faith.
  CLOWN. How now, my hearts! Did you never see the picture of 'we
    three'?
  SIR TOBY. Welcome, ass. Now let's have a catch.
  AGUECHEEK. By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast. I had
    rather than forty shillings I had such a leg, and so sweet a
    breath to sing, as the fool has. In sooth, thou wast in very
    gracious fooling last night, when thou spok'st of Pigrogromitus,
    of the Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus; 'twas very
    good, i' faith. I sent thee sixpence for thy leman; hadst it?
  CLOWN. I did impeticos thy gratillity; for Malvolio's nose is no
    whipstock. My lady has a white hand, and the Myrmidons are no
    bottle-ale houses.
  AGUECHEEK. Excellent! Why, this is the best fooling, when all is
    done. Now, a song.
  SIR TOBY. Come on, there is sixpence for you. Let's have a song.
  AGUECHEEK. There's a testril of me too; if one knight give a-
CLOWN. Would you have a love-song, or a song of good life?
  SIR TOBY. A love-song, a love-song.
  AGUECHEEK. Ay, ay; I care not for good life.

                         CLOWN sings

         O mistress mine, where are you roaming?
         O, stay and hear; your true love's coming,
           That can sing both high and low.
           Trip no further, pretty sweeting;
           Journeys end in lovers meeting,
           Every wise man's son doth know.

  AGUECHEEK. Excellent good, i' faith!
  SIR TOBY. Good, good!

                         CLOWN sings

           What is love? 'Tis not hereafter;
           Present mirth hath present laughter;
             What's to come is still unsure.
           In delay there lies no plenty,
           Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty;
             Youth's a stuff will not endure.

  AGUECHEEK. A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.
  SIR TOBY. A contawious breath.
  AGUECHEEK. Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.
  SIR TOBY. To hear by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion. But shall
    we make the welkin dance indeed? Shall we rouse the night-owl in
    a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver? Shall we do
    that?
  AGUECHEEK. An you love me, let's do't. I am dog at a catch.
  CLOWN. By'r lady, sir, and some dogs will catch well.
  AGUECHEEK. Most certain. Let our catch be 'Thou knave.'
  CLOWN. 'Hold thy peace, thou knave' knight? I shall be constrain'd
    in't to call thee knave, knight.
  AGUECHEEK. 'Tis not the first time I have constrained one to call
    me knave. Begin, fool: it begins 'Hold thy peace.'
  CLOWN. I shall never begin if I hold my peace.
  AGUECHEEK. Good, i' faith! Come, begin.           [Catch sung]

                         Enter MARIA

  MARIA. What a caterwauling do you keep here! If my lady have not
    call'd up her steward Malvolio, and bid him turn you out of
    doors, ne