 not, let me see thee
    a steward still, the fellow of servants, and not worthy to touch
    Fortune's fingers. Farewell. She that would alter services with
    thee,
                                         THE FORTUNATE-UNHAPPY.'

    Daylight and champain discovers not more. This is open. I will be
    proud, I will read politic authors, I will baffle Sir Toby, I
    will wash off gross acquaintance, I will be point-devise the very
    man. I do not now fool myself to let imagination jade me; for
    every reason excites to this, that my lady loves me. She did
    commend my yellow stockings of late, she did praise my leg being
    cross-garter'd; and in this she manifests herself to my love, and
    with a kind of injunction drives me to these habits of her
    liking. I thank my stars I am happy. I will be strange, stout, in
    yellow stockings, and cross-garter'd, even with the swiftness of
    putting on. Jove and my stars be praised! Here is yet a
    postscript.

    [Reads] 'Thou canst not choose but know who I am. If thou
    entertain'st my love, let it appear in thy smiling; thy smiles
    become thee well. Therefore in my presence still smile, dear my
    sweet, I prithee.'

    Jove, I thank thee. I will smile; I will do everything that thou
    wilt have me.                                           Exit
  FABIAN. I will not give my part of this sport for a pension of¦
    thousands to be paid from the Sophy.
  SIR TOBY. I could marry this wench for this device.
  AGUECHEEK. So could I too.
  SIR TOBY. And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.

                          Enter MARIA

  AGUECHEEK. Nor I neither.
  FABIAN. Here comes my noble gull-catcher.
  SIR TOBY. Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?
  AGUECHEEK. Or o' mine either?
  SIR TOBY. Shall I play my freedom at tray-trip, and become thy
    bond-slave?
  AGUECHEEK. I' faith, or I either?
  SIR TOBY. Why, thou hast put him in such a dream that when the
    image of it leaves him he mu