ave shores?
    And do you now put on your best attire?
    And do you now cull out a holiday?
    And do you now strew flowers in his way
    That comes in triumph over Pompey's blood?
    Be gone!
    Run to your houses, fall upon your knees,
    Pray to the gods to intermit the plague
    That needs must light on this ingratitude.
  FLAVIUS. Go, go, good countrymen, and, for this fault,
    Assemble all the poor men of your sort,
    Draw them to Tiber banks, and weep your tears
    Into the channel, till the lowest stream
    Do kiss the most exalted shores of all.
                                           Exeunt all Commoners.
    See whether their basest metal be not moved;
    They vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness.
    Go you down that way towards the Capitol;
    This way will I. Disrobe the images
    If you do find them deck'd with ceremonies.
  MARULLUS. May we do so?
    You know it is the feast of Lupercal.
  FLAVIUS. It is no matter; let no images
    Be hung with Caesar's trophies. I'll about
    And drive away the vulgar from the streets;
    So do you too, where you perceive them thick.
    These growing feathers pluck'd from Caesar's wing
    Will make him fly an ordinary pitch,
    Who else would soar above the view of men
    And keep us all in servile fearfulness.              Exeunt.




SCENE II.
A public place.

Flourish. Enter Caesar; Antony, for the course; Calpurnia, Portia,
Decius, Cicero, Brutus, Cassius, and Casca; a great crowd follows,
among them a Soothsayer.

  CAESAR. Calpurnia!
  CASCA. Peace, ho! Caesar speaks.
                                                   Music ceases.
  CAESAR. Calpurnia!
  CALPURNIA. Here, my lord.
  CAESAR. Stand you directly in Antonio's way,
    When he doth run his course. Antonio!
  ANTONY. Caesar, my lord?
  CAESAR. Forget not in your speed, Antonio,
    To touch Calpurnia, for our elders say
    The barren, touched in this holy chase,
    Shake off their sterile curse.
  ANTONY. I shall remember.
    When Caesar says "Do this," it is perform'd.
  CAESAR. Set on, and leave no ceremony out.           Flourish.
  SOOTHSAYER. Caesar!
  CAESAR. Ha! Who calls?
  CASCA. Bid every noise be still. Peace yet again!
  CAESAR. Who is it in the press that calls on me?
    I hear a tongue, shriller than all the music,
    Cry "Caesar." Speak, Caesar is turn'd to hear.
  SOOTHSAYER. Beware the ides of March.
  CAESAR. What man is that?
  BRUTUS. A soothsayer you beware the ides of March.
  CAESAR. Set him before me let me see his face.
  CASSIUS. Fellow, come from the throng; look upon Caesar.
  CAESAR. What say'st thou to me now? Speak once again.
  SOOTHSAYER. Beware the ides of March.
  CAESAR. He is a dreamer; let us leave him. Pass.
                      Sennet. Exeunt all but Brutus and Cassius.
  CASSIUS. Will you go see the order of the course?
  BRUTUS. Not I.
  CASSIUS. I pray you, do.
  BRUTUS. I am not gamesome; I do lack some part
    Of that quick spirit that is in Antony.
    Let me not hinder, Cassius, your desires;
    I'll leave you.
  CASSIUS. Brutus, I do observe you now of late;
    I have not from your eyes that gentleness
    And show of love as I was wont to have;
    You bear too stubborn and too strange a hand
    Over your friend that loves you.
  BRUTUS. Cassius,
    Be not deceived; if I have veil'd my look,
    I turn the trouble of my countenance
    Merely upon myself. Vexed I am
    Of late with passions of some difference,
    Conceptions only proper to myself,
    Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors;
    But let not therefore my good friends be grieved-
    Among which number, Cassius, be you one-
    Nor construe any further my neglect
    Than that poor Brutus with himself at war
    Forgets the shows of love to other men.
  CASSIUS. Then, Brutus, I have much mistook your passion,
    By means whereof this breast of mine hath buried
    Thoughts of great value, worthy cogitations.
    Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face?
  BRUTUS. No, Cassius, for the eye sees not itself
    But by reflection, by some other things.
  CASSIUS. 'Tis just,
    And it is very much lamented, Brutus,
    That you have no such mirrors as will turn
    Your hidden worthiness into your eye
    That you might see your shadow. I have heard
    Where many of the best respect in Rome,
    Except immortal Caesar, speaking of Brutus
    And groaning underneath this age's yoke,
    Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes.
  BRUTUS. Into what dangers would you lead me, Cassius,
    That you would have me seek into myself
    For that which is not in me?
  CASSIUS. Therefore, good Brutus, be prepared to hear,
    And since you know you cannot see yourself
    So well as by reflection, I your glass
    Will modestl9 discover to yourself
    That of yourself which you yet know not of.
    And be not jealous on me, gentle Brutus;
    Were I a common laugher, or did use
    To stale with ordinary oaths my love
    To every new protester, if you know
    That I do fawn on men and hug them hard
    And after scandal them, or if you know
    That I profess myself in banqueting
    To all the rout, then hold me dangerous.
                                             Flourish and shout.
  BRUTUS. What means this shouting? I do fear the people
    Choose Caesar for their king.
  CASSIUS. Ay, do you fear it?
    Then must I think you would not have it so.
  BRUTUS. I would not, Cassius, yet I love him well.
    But wherefore do you hold me here so long?
    What is it that you would impart to me?
    If it be aught toward the general good,
    Set honor in one eye and death i' the other
    And I will look on both indifferently.
    For let the gods so speed me as I love
    The name of honor more than I fear death.
  CASSIUS. I know that virtue to be in you, Brutus,
    As well as I do know your outward favor.
    Well, honor is the subject of my story.
    I cannot tell what you and other men
    Think of this life, but, for my single self,
    I had as lief not be as live to be
    In awe of such a thing as I myself.
    I was born free as Caesar, so were you;
    We both have fed as well, and we can both
    Endure the winter's cold as well as he.
    For once, upon a raw and gusty day,
    The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores,
    Caesar said to me, "Darest thou, Cassius, now
    Leap in with me into this angry flood
    And swim to yonder point?" Upon the word,
    Accoutred as I was, I plunged in
    And bade him follow. So indeed he did.
    The torrent roar'd, and we did buffet it
    With lusty sinews, throwing it aside
    And stemming it with hearts of controversy.
    But ere we could arrive the point proposed,
    Caesar cried, "Help me, Cassius, or I sink!
    I, as Aeneas our gr