their Graces
    To come near. [Exit GENTLEMAN] What can be their business
    With me, a poor weak woman, fall'n from favour?
    I do not like their coming. Now I think on't,
    They should be good men, their affairs as righteous;
    But all hoods make not monks.

         Enter the two CARDINALS, WOLSEY and CAMPEIUS

  WOLSEY. Peace to your Highness!
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Your Graces find me here part of housewife;
    I would be all, against the worst may happen.
    What are your pleasures with me, reverend lords?
  WOLSEY. May it please you, noble madam, to withdraw
    Into your private chamber, we shall give you
    The full cause of our coming.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Speak it here;
    There's nothing I have done yet, o' my conscience,
    Deserves a corner. Would all other women
    Could speak this with as free a soul as I do!
    My lords, I care not-so much I am happy
    Above a number-if my actions
    Were tried by ev'ry tongue, ev'ry eye saw 'em,
    Envy and base opinion set against 'em,
    I know my life so even. If your business
    Seek me out, and that way I am wife in,
    Out with it boldly; truth loves open dealing.
  WOLSEY. Tanta est erga te mentis integritas, regina serenis-sima-
  QUEEN KATHARINE. O, good my lord, no Latin!
    I am not such a truant since my coming,
    As not to know the language I have liv'd in;
    A strange tongue makes my cause more strange, suspicious;
    Pray speak in English. Here are some will thank you,
    If you speak truth, for their poor mistress' sake:
    Believe me, she has had much wrong. Lord Cardinal,
    The willing'st sin I ever yet committed
    May be absolv'd in English.
  WOLSEY. Noble lady,
    I am sorry my integrity should breed,
    And service to his Majesty and you,
    So deep suspicion, where all faith was meant
    We come not by the way of accusation
    To taint that honour every good tongue blesses,
    Nor to betray you any way to sorrow-
    You have too much, good lady; but to know
    How you stand minded in the weighty difference
    Between the King and you, and to deliver,
    Like free and honest men, our just opinions
    And comforts to your cause.
  CAMPEIUS. Most honour'd madam,
    My Lord of York, out of his noble nature,
    Zeal and obedience he still bore your Grace,
    Forgetting, like a good man, your late censure
    Both of his truth and him-which was too far-
    Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace,
    His service and his counsel.
  QUEEN KATHARINE.  [Aside]  To betray me.-
    My lords, I thank you both for your good wins;
    Ye speak like honest men-pray God ye prove so!
    But how to make ye suddenly an answer,
    In such a point of weight, so near mine honour,
    More near my life, I fear, with my weak wit,
    And to such men of gravity and learning,
    In truth I know not. I was set at work
    Among my maids, full little, God knows, looking
    Either for such men or such business.
    For her sake that I have been-for I feel
    The last fit of my greatness-good your Graces,
    Let me have time and counsel for my cause.
    Alas, I am a woman, friendless, hopeless!
  WOLSEY. Madam, you wrong the King's love with these fears;
    Your hopes and friends are infinite.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. In England
    But little for my profit; can you think, lords,
    That any Englishman dare give me counsel?
    Or be a known friend, 'gainst his Highness' pleasure-
    Though he be grown so desperate to be honest-
    And live a subject? Nay, forsooth, my friends,
    They that must weigh out my afflictions,
    They that my trust must grow to, live not here;
    They are, as all my other comforts, far hence,
    In mine own country, lords.
  CAMPEIUS. I would your Grace
    Would leave your griefs, and take my counsel.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. How, sir?
  CAMPEIUS. Put your main cause into the King's protection;
    He's loving and most gracious. 'Twill be much
    Both for your honour better and your cause;
    For if the trial of the law o'ertake ye
    You'll part away disgrac'd.
  WOLSEY. He tells you rightly.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Ye tell me what ye wish for both-my ruin.
    Is this your Christian counsel? Out upon ye!
    Heaven is above all yet: there sits a Judge
    That no king can corrupt.
  CAMPEIUS. Your rage mistakes us.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. The more shame for ye; holy men I thought ye,
    Upon my soul, two reverend cardinal virtues;
    But cardinal sins and hollow hearts I fear ye.
    Mend 'em, for shame, my lords. Is this your comfort?
    The cordial that ye bring a wretched lady-
    A woman lost among ye, laugh'd at, scorn'd?
    I will not wish ye half my miseries:
    I have more charity; but say I warned ye.
    Take heed, for heaven's sake take heed, lest at once
    The burden of my sorrows fall upon ye.
  WOLSEY. Madam, this is a mere distraction;
    You turn the good we offer into envy.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Ye turn me into nothing. Woe upon ye,
    And all such false professors! Would you have me-
    If you have any justice, any pity,
    If ye be any thing but churchmen's habits-
    Put my sick cause into his hands that hates me?
    Alas! has banish'd me his bed already,
    His love too long ago! I am old, my lords,
    And all the fellowship I hold now with him
    Is only my obedience. What can happen
    To me above this wretchedness? All your studies
    Make me a curse like this.
  CAMPEIUS. Your fears are worse.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Have I liv'd thus long-let me speak myself,
    Since virtue finds no friends-a wife, a true one?
    A woman, I dare say without vain-glory,
    Never yet branded with suspicion?
    Have I with all my full affections
    Still met the King, lov'd him next heav'n, obey'd him,
    Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him,
    Almost forgot my prayers to content him,
    And am I thus rewarded? 'Tis not well, lords.
    Bring me a constant woman to her husband,
    One that ne'er dream'd a joy beyond his pleasure,
    And to that woman, when she has done most,
    Yet will I add an honour-a great patience.
  WOLSEY. Madam, you wander from the good we aim at.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. My lord, I dare not make myself so guilty,
    To give up willingly that noble title
    Your master wed me to: nothing but death
    Shall e'er divorce my dignities.
  WOLSEY. Pray hear me.
  QUEEN KATHARINE. Would I had never trod this English earth,
    Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it!
    Ye have angels' faces, but heaven knows your hearts.
    What will become of me now, wretched lady?
    I am the most unhappy woman living.
    [To her WOMEN]  Alas, poor wenches, where are now
      your fortunes?
    Shipwreck'd upon a kingdom, where no pity,
    No friends, no hope; no kindred weep for me;
    Almost no grave allow'd me. Like the My,
    That once was mistress of the field, and flourish'd,
    I'll hang my head and perish.
  WOLSEY. If your Grace
    Could but be brought to know our ends are honest,
    You'd feel more comfort. Why should we, good lady,
    Upon what cause, wrong you? Alas, our places,
    The way of our profession is against it;
    We are to cure such sorrows, not to sow 'em.
    For goodness' sake, consider what you do;
    How you may hurt yourself, ay, utterly
    Grow from the King's acquaintance, by this carriage.
    The hearts of princes kiss obedience,
    So much they love it; but to stubborn spirits
    They swell and grow as terrible as storms.
    I know you have a gentle, noble temper,
    A soul as even as a calm. Pray think us
    Those we profess, peace-makers, friends, and servants.
  CAMPEIUS. Madam, you'll find it so. You wrong your virtues
    With these weak women's fears. A noble spirit,
    As yours was put into you, ever casts
    Such doubts as false coin from it. The King loves you;
    Beware you lose it not. For us, if you please
    To trust us in your business, we are ready
    To use our utmost studies in your service.
  QUEEN KATHARINET Do what ye will my lords; and pray
      forgive me
    If I have us'd myself unmannerly;
    You know I am a woman, lacking wit
    To make a seemly answer to such persons.
    Pray do my service to his Majesty;
    He has my heart yet, and shall have my prayers
    While I shall have my life. Come, reverend fathers,
    Bestow your counsels on me; she now begs
    That little thought, when she set footing here,
    She should have bought her dignities so dear.              Exeunt



ACT III.SCENE 2.

London. The palace

Enter the DUKE OF NORFOLK, the DUKE OF SUFFOLK, the EARL OF SURREY,
and the LORD CHAMBERLAIN

  NORFOLK. If you will now unite in your complaints
    And force them with a constancy, the Cardinal
    Cannot stand under them: if you omit
    The offer of this time, I cannot promise
    But that you shall sustain moe new disgraces
    With these you bear already.
  SURREY. I am joyful
    To meet the least occasion that may give me
    Remembrance of my father-in-law, the Duke,
    To be reveng'd on him.
  SUFFOLK. Which of the peers
    Have uncontemn'd gone by him, or at least
    Strangely neglected? When did he regard
    The stamp of nobleness in any person
    Out of himself?
  CHAMBERLAIN. My lords, you speak your pleasures.
    What he deserves of you and me I know;
    What we can do to him-though now the time
    Gives way to us-I much fear. If you cannot
    Bar his access to th' King, never attempt
    Anything on him; for he hath a witchcraft
    Over the King in's tongue.
  NORFOLK. O, fear him not!
    His spell in that is out; the King hath found
    Matter against him that for ever mars
    The honey of his language. No, he's settled,
    Not to come off, in his displeasure.
  SURREY. Sir,
    I should be glad to hear such news as this
    Once every hour.
  NORFOLK. Believe it, this is true:
    In the divorce his contrary proceedings
    Are all unfolded; wherein he appears
    As I would wish mine enemy.
  SURREY. How came
    His practices to light?
  SUFFOLK. Most Strangely.
  SURREY. O, how, how?
  SUFFOLK. The Cardinal's letters to the Pope miscarried,
    And came to th' eye o' th' King; wherein was read
    How that the Cardinal did entreat his Holiness
    To stay the judgment o' th' divorce; for if
    It did take place, 'I do' quoth he 'perceive
    My king is tangled in affection to
    A creature of the Queen's, Lady Anne Bullen.'
  SURREY. Has the King this?
  SUFFOLK. Believe it.
  SURREY. Will this work?
  CHAMBERLAIN. The King in this perceives him how he coasts
    And hedges his own way. But in this point
    All his tricks founder, and he brings his physic
    After his patient's death: the King already
    Hath married the fair lady.
  SURREY. Would he had!
  SUFFOLK. May you be happy in your wish, my lord!
    For, I profess, you have it.
  SURREY. Now, all my joy
    Trace the conjunction!
  SUFFOLK. My amen to't!
  NORFOLK. An men's!
  SUFFOLK. There's order given for her coronation;
    Marry, this is yet but young, and may be left
    To some ears unrecounted. But, my lords,
    She is a gallant creature, and complete
    In mind and feature. I persuade me from her
    Will fall some blessing to this land, which shall
    In it be memoriz'd.
  SURREY. But will the King
    Digest this letter of the Cardinal's?
    The Lord forbid!
  NORFOLK. Marry, amen!
  SUFFOLK. No, no;
    There be moe wasps that buzz about his nose
    Will make this sting the sooner. Cardinal Campeius
    Is stol'n away to Rome; hath ta'en no leave;
    Has left the cause o' th' King unhandled, and
    Is posted, as the agent of our Cardinal,
    To second all his plot. I do assure you
    The King cried 'Ha!' at this.
  CHAMBERLAIN. Now, God incense him,
    And let him cry 'Ha!' louder!
  NORFOLK. But, my lord,
    When returns Cranmer?
  SUFFOLK. He is return'd in his opinions; which
    Have satisfied the King for his divorce,
    Together with all famous colleges
    Almost in Christendom. Shortly, I believe,
    His second marriage shall be publish'd, and
    Her coronation. Katharine no more
    Shall be call'd queen, but princess dowager
    And widow to Prince Arthur.
  NORFOLK. This same Cranmer's
    A worthy fellow, and hath ta'en much pain
    In the King's business.
  SUFFOLK. He has; and we shall see him
    For it an archbishop.
  NORFOLK. So I hear.
  SUFFOLK. 'Tis so.

        Enter WOLSEY and CROMWELL

    The Cardinal!
  NORFOLK. Observe, observe, he's moody.
  WOLSEY. The packet, Cromwell,
    Gave't you the King?
  CROMWELL. To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
  WOLSEY. Look'd he o' th' inside of the paper?
  CROMWELL. Presently
    He did unseal them; and the first he view'd,
    He did it with a serious mind; a heed
    Was in his countenance. You he bade
    Attend him here this morning.
  WOLSEY. Is he ready
    To come abroad?
  CROMWELL. I think by this he is.
  WOLSEY. Leave me awhile.                              Exit CROMWELL
    [Aside]  It shall be to the Duchess of Alencon,
    The French King's sister; he shall marry her.
    Anne Bullen! No, I'll no Anne Bullens for him;
    There's more in't than fair visage. Bullen!
    No, we'll no Bullens. Speedily I wish
    To hear from Rome. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
  NORFOLK. He's discontented.
  SUFFOLK. May be he hears the King
    Does whet his anger to him.
  SURREY. Sharp enough,
    Lord, for thy justice!
  WOLSEY.  [Aside]  The late Queen's gentlewoman, a knight's
      daughter,
    To be her mistress' mistress! The Queen's queen!
    This candle burns not clear. 'Tis I must snuff it;
    Then out it goes. What though I know her virtuous
    And well deserving? Yet I know her for
    A spleeny Lutheran; and not wholesome to
    Our cause that she should lie i' th' bosom of
    Our hard-rul'd King. Again, there is sprung up
    An heretic, an arch one, Cranmer; one
    Hath crawl'd into the favour of the King,
    And is his oracle.
  NORFOLK. He is vex'd at something.

        Enter the KING, reading of a schedule, and LOVELL

  SURREY. I would 'twere something that would fret the string,
    The master-cord on's heart!
  SUFFOLK. The King, the King!
  KING. What piles of wealth hath he accumulated
    To his own portion! And what expense by th' hour
    Seems to flow from him! How, i' th' name of thrift,
    Does he rake this together?-Now, my lords,
    Saw you the Cardinal?
  NORFOLK. My lord, we have
    Stood here observing him. Some strange commotion
    Is in his brain: he bites his lip and starts,
    Stops on a sudden, looks upon the ground,
    Then lays his finger on his temple; straight
    Springs out into fast gait; then stops again,
    Strikes his breast hard; and anon he casts
    His eye against the moon. In most strange postures
    We have seen him set himself.
  KING. It may well be
    There is a mutiny in's mind. This morning
    Papers of state he sent me to peruse,
    As I requir'd; and wot you what I found
    There-on my conscience, put unwittingly?
    Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing
    The several parcels of his plate, his treasure,
    Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household; which
    I find at such proud rate that it outspeaks
    Possession of a subject.
  NORFOLK. It's heaven's will;
    Some spirit put this paper in the packet
    To bless your eye withal.
  KING. If we did think
    His contemplation were above the earth
    And fix'd on spiritual object, he should still
    dwell in his musings; but I am afraid
    His thinkings are below the moon, not worth
    His serious considering.
                        [The KING takes his seat and whispers LOVELL,
                                           who goes to the CARDINAL]
  WOLSEY. Heaven forgive me!
    Ever God bless your Highness!
  KING. Good, my lord,
    You are full of heavenly stuff, and bear the inventory
    Of your best graces in your mind; the which
    You were now running o'er. You have scarce time
    To steal from spiritual leisure a brief span
    To keep your earthly audit; sure, in that
    I deem you an ill husband, and am glad
    To have you therein my companion.
  WOLSEY. Sir,
    For holy offices I have a time; a time
    To think upon the part of business which
    I bear i' th' state; and nature does require
    Her times of preservation, which perforce
    I, her frail son, amongst my brethren mortal,
    Must give my tendance to.
  KING. You have said well.
  WOLSEY. And ever may your Highness yoke together,
    As I will lend you cause, my doing well
    With my well saying!
  KING. 'Tis well said again;
    And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well;
    And yet words are no deeds. My father lov'd you:
    He said he did; and with his deed did crown
    His word upon you. Since I had my office
    I have kept you next my heart; have not alone
    Employ'd you where high profits might come home,
    But par'd my present havings to bestow
    My bounties upon you.
  WOLSEY.  [Aside]  What should this mean?
  SURREY.  [Aside]  The Lord increase this business!
  KING. Have I not made you
    The prime man of the state? I pray you tell me
    If what I now pronounce you have found true;
    And, if you may confess it, say withal
    If you are bound to us or no. What say you?
  WOLSEY. My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,
    Show'r'd on me daily, have been more than could
    My studied purposes requite; which went
    Beyond all man's endeavours. My endeavours,
    Have ever come too short of my desires,
    Yet fil'd with my abilities; mine own ends
    Have been mine so that evermore they pointed
    To th' good of your most sacred person and
    The profit of the state. For your great graces
    Heap'd upon me, poor undeserver, I
    Can nothing render but allegiant thanks;
    My pray'rs to heaven for you; my loyalty,
    Which ever has and ever shall be growing,
    Till death, that winter, kill it.
  KING. Fairly answer'd!
    A loyal and obedient subject is
    Therein illustrated; the honour of it
    Does pay the act of it, as, i' th' contrary,
    The foulness is the punishment. I presume
    That, as my hand has open'd bounty to you,
    My heart dropp'd love, my pow'r rain'd honour, more
    On you than any, so your hand and heart,
    Your brain, and every function of your power,
    Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty,
    As 'twere in love's particular, be more
    To me, your friend, than any.
  WOLSEY. I do profess
    That for your Highness' good I ever labour'd
    More than mine own; that am, have, and will be-
    Though all the world should crack their duty to you,
    And throw it from their soul; though perils did
    Abound as thick as thought could make 'em, and
    Appear in forms more horrid-yet my duty,
    As doth a rock against the chiding flood,
    Should the approach of this wild river break,
    And stand unshaken yours.
  KING. 'Tis nobly spoken.
    Take notice, lords, he has a loyal breast,
    For you have seen him 