irly done, no matter.

                         Enter BARDOLPH

  BARDOLPH. Sir John, there's one Master Brook below would
    fain speak with you, and be acquainted with you; and hath
    sent your worship a moming's draught of sack.
  FALSTAFF. Brook is his name?
  BARDOLPH. Ay, sir.
  FALSTAFF. Call him in.  [Exit BARDOLPH]  Such Brooks are
    welcome to me, that o'erflows such liquor. Ah, ha! Mistress
    Ford and Mistress Page, have I encompass'd you? Go to;
    via!

              Re-enter BARDOLPH, with FORD disguised

  FORD. Bless you, sir!
  FALSTAFF. And you, sir! Would you speak with me?
  FORD. I make bold to press with so little preparation upon
    you.
  FALSTAFF. You're welcome. What's your will? Give us leave,
    drawer.                                        Exit BARDOLPH
  FORD. Sir, I am a gentleman that have spent much; my name
    is Brook.
  FALSTAFF. Good Master Brook, I desire more acquaintance
    of you.
  FORD. Good Sir John, I sue for yours-not to charge you; for I
    must let you understand I think myself in better plight for
    a lender than you are; the which hath something
    embold'ned me to this unseason'd intrusion; for they say, if
    money go before, all ways do lie open.
  FALSTAFF. Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on.
  FORD. Troth, and I have a bag of money here troubles me; if
    you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or half, for easing
    me of the carriage.
  FALSTAFF. Sir, I know not how I may deserve to be your
    porter.
  FORD. I will tell you, sir, if you will give me the hearing.
  FALSTAFF. Speak, good Master Brook; I shall be glad to be
    your servant.
  FORD. Sir, I hear you are a scholar-I will be brief with you
    -and you have been a man long known to me, though I
    had never so good means as desire to make myself acquainted
    with you. I shall discover a thing to you, wherein
    I must very much lay open mine own imperfection; but,
    good Sir John, as you have one eye upon my follies, as you
    hear them unfolded, turn another into the register of your
    own, that I may pass with a reproof the easier, sith you
    yourself know how easy is it to be such an offender.
  FALSTAFF. Very well, sir; proceed.
  FORD. There is a gentlewoman in this town, her husband's
    name is Ford.
  FALSTAFF. Well, sir.
  FORD. I have long lov'd her, and, I protest to you, bestowed
    much on her; followed her with a doting observance;
    engross'd opportunities to meet her; fee'd every slight occasion
    that could but niggardly give me sight of her; not
    only bought many presents to give her, but have given
    largely to many to know what she would have given;
    briefly, I have pursu'd her as love hath pursued me; which
    hath been on the wing of all occasions. But whatsoever I
    have merited, either in my mind or in my means, meed, I
    am sure, I have received none, unless experience be a jewel;
    that I have purchased at an infinite rate, and that hath
    taught me to say this:
    'Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues;
    Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.'
  FALSTAFF. Have you receiv'd no promise of satisfaction at
    her hands?
  FORD. Never.
  FALSTAFF. Have you importun'd her to such a purpose?
  FORD. Never.
    FALSTAFF. Of what quality was your love, then?
  FORD. Like a fair house built on another man's ground; so
    that I have lost my edifice by mistaking the place where
    erected it.
  FALSTAFF. To what purpose have you unfolded this to me?
  FORD. When I have told you that, I have told you all. Some
    say that though she appear honest to me, yet in other
    places she enlargeth her mirth so far that there is shrewd
    construction made of her. Now, Sir John, here is the heart
    of my purpose: you are a gentleman of excellent
    breeding, admirable discourse, of great admittance, authentic in
    your place and person, generally allow'd for your many
    war-like, courtlike, and learned preparations.
  FALSTAFF. O, sir!
  FORD. Believe it, for you know it. There is money; spend it,
    spend it; spend more; spend all I have; only give me so
    much of your time in exchange of it as to lay an amiable
    siege to the honesty of this Ford's wife; use your art of
    wooing, win her to consent to you; if any man may, you
    may as soon as any.
    FALSTAFF. Would it apply well to the vehemency of your
    affection, that I should win what you would enjoy?
    Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.
  FORD. O, understand my drift. She dwells so securely on the
    excellency of her honour that the folly of my soul dares
    not present itself; she is too bright to be look'd against.
    Now, could I come to her with any detection in my hand,
    my desires had instance and argument to commend themselves;
    I could drive her then from the ward of her purity,
    her reputation, her marriage vow, and a thousand other her
    defences, which now are too too strongly embattl'd against
    me. What say you to't, Sir John?
  FALSTAFF. Master Brook, I will first make bold with your
    money; next, give me your hand; and last, as I am a gentleman,
    you shall, if you will, enjoy Ford's wife.
  FORD. O good sir!
  FALSTAFF. I say you shall.
  FORD. Want no money, Sir John; you shall want none.
  FALSTAFF. Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook; you shall
    want none. I shall be with her, I may tell you, by her own
    appointment; even as you came in to me her assistant, or
    go-between, parted from me; I say I shall be with her between
    ten and eleven; for at that time the jealous rascally
    knave, her husband, will be forth. Come you to me at
    night; you shall know how I speed.
  FORD. I am blest in your acquaintance. Do you know Ford,
    Sir?
  FALSTAFF. Hang him, poor cuckoldly knave! I know him
    not; yet I wrong him to call him poor; they say the
    jealous wittolly knave hath masses of money; for the which
    his wife seems to me well-favour'd. I will use her as the
    key of the cuckoldly rogue's coffer; and there's my harvest-home.
  FORD. I would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him
    if you saw him.
  FALSTAFF. Hang him, mechanical salt-butter rogue! I will
    stare him out of his wits; I will awe him with my cudgel;
    it shall hang like a meteor o'er the cuckold's horns. Master
    Brook, thou shalt know I will predominate over the
    peasant, and thou shalt lie with his wife. Come to me soon at
    night. Ford's a knave, and I will aggravate his style; thou,
    Master Brook, shalt know him for knave and cuckold.
    Come to me soon at night.                               Exit
  FORD. What a damn'd Epicurean rascal is this! My heart is
    ready to crack with impatience. Who says this is improvident
    jealousy? My wife hath sent to him; the hour is fix'd;
    the match is made. Would any man have thought this? See
    the hell of having a false wOman! My bed shall be abus'd,
    my coffers ransack'd, my reputation gnawn at; and I shall
    not only receive this villainous wrong, but stand under the
    adoption 