lord, you have one eye left
     To see some mischief on him. O!                     He dies.
  Corn. Lest it see more, prevent it. Out, vile jelly!
     Where is thy lustre now?
  Glou. All dark and comfortless! Where's my son Edmund?
     Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature
     To quit this horrid act.
  Reg. Out, treacherous villain!
     Thou call'st on him that hates thee. It was he
     That made the overture of thy treasons to us;
     Who is too good to pity thee.
  Glou. O my follies! Then Edgar was abus'd.
     Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him!
  Reg. Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell
     His way to Dover.
                                     Exit [one] with Gloucester.
     How is't, my lord? How look you?
  Corn. I have receiv'd a hurt. Follow me, lady.
     Turn out that eyeless villain. Throw this slave
     Upon the dunghill. Regan, I bleed apace.
     Untimely comes this hurt. Give me your arm.
                                  Exit [Cornwall, led by Regan].
  2. Serv. I'll never care what wickedness I do,
     If this man come to good.
  3. Serv. If she live long,
     And in the end meet the old course of death,
     Women will all turn monsters.
  2. Serv. Let's follow the old Earl, and get the bedlam
     To lead him where he would. His roguish madness
     Allows itself to anything.
  3. Serv. Go thou. I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs
     To apply to his bleeding face. Now heaven help him!
                                                         Exeunt.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT IV. Scene I.
The heath.

Enter Edgar.

  Edg. Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd,
     Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. To be worst,
     The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,
     Stands still in esperance, lives not in fear.
     The lamentable change is from the best;
     The worst returns to laughter. Welcome then,
     Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!
     The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst
     Owes nothing to thy blasts.

                 Enter Gloucester, led by an Old Man.

     But who comes here?
     My father, poorly led? World, world, O world!
     But that thy strange mutations make us hate tiee,
     Life would not yield to age.
  Old Man. O my good lord,
     I have been your tenant, and your father's tenant,
     These fourscore years.
  Glou. Away, get thee away! Good friend, be gone.
     Thy comforts can do me no good at all;
     Thee they may hurt.
  Old Man. You cannot see your way.
  Glou. I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;
     I stumbled when I saw. Full oft 'tis seen
     Our means secure us, and our mere defects
     Prove our commodities. Ah dear son Edgar,
     The food of thy abused father's wrath!
     Might I but live to see thee in my touch,
     I'ld say I had eyes again!
  Old Man. How now? Who's there?
  Edg. [aside] O gods! Who is't can say 'I am at the worst'?
     I am worse than e'er I was.
  Old Man. 'Tis poor mad Tom.
  Edg. [aside] And worse I may be yet. The worst is not
     So long as we can say 'This is the worst.'
  Old Man. Fellow, where goest?
  Glou. Is it a beggarman?
  Old Man. Madman and beggar too.
  Glou. He has some reason, else he could not beg.
     I' th' last night's storm I such a fellow saw,
     Which made me think a man a worm. My son
     Came then into my mind, and yet my mind
     Was then scarce friends with him. I have heard more since.
     As flies to wanton boys are we to th' gods.
     They kill us for their sport.
  Edg. [aside] How should this be?
     Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,
     Ang'ring itself and others.- Bless thee, master!
  Glou. Is that the naked fellow?
  Old Man. Ay, my lord.
  Glou. Then prithee get thee gone. If for my sake
     Thou wilt o'ertake us hence a mile or twain
     I' th' way toward Dover, do it for ancient love;
     And bring some covering for this naked soul,
     Who I'll entreat to lead me.
  Old Man. Alack, sir, he is mad!
  Glou. 'Tis the time's plague when madmen lead the blind.
     Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure.
     Above the rest, be gone.
  Old Man. I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have,
     Come on't what will.                                  Exit.
  Glou. Sirrah naked fellow-
  Edg. Poor Tom's acold. [Aside] I cannot daub it further.
  Glou. Come hither, fellow.
  Edg. [aside] And yet I must.- Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.
  Glou. Know'st thou the way to Dover?
  Edg. Both stile and gate, horseway and footpath. Poor Tom hath been
     scar'd out of his good wits. Bless thee, good man's son, from
     the foul fiend! Five fiends have been in poor Tom at once: of
     lust, as Obidicut; Hobbididence, prince of dumbness; Mahu, of
     stealing; Modo, of murder; Flibbertigibbet, of mopping and
     mowing, who since possesses chambermaids and waiting women. So,
     bless thee, master!
  Glou. Here, take this Purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
     Have humbled to all strokes. That I am wretched
     Makes thee the happier. Heavens, deal so still!
     Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man,
     That slaves your ordinance, that will not see
     Because he does not feel, feel your pow'r quickly;
     So distribution should undo excess,
     And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?
  Edg. Ay, master.
  Glou. There is a cliff, whose high and bending head
     Looks fearfully in the confined deep.
     Bring me but to the very brim of it,
     And I'll repair the misery thou dost bear
     With something rich about me. From that place
     I shall no leading need.
  Edg. Give me thy arm.
     Poor Tom shall lead thee.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene II.
Before the Duke of Albany's Palace.

Enter Goneril and [Edmund the] Bastard.

  Gon. Welcome, my lord. I marvel our mild husband
     Not met us on the way.

                     Enter [Oswald the] Steward.

     Now, where's your master?
  Osw. Madam, within, but never man so chang'd.
     I told him of the army that was landed:
     He smil'd at it. I told him you were coming:
     His answer was, 'The worse.' Of Gloucester's treachery
     And of the loyal service of his son
     When I inform'd him, then he call'd me sot
     And told me I had turn'd the wrong side out.
     What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him;
     What like, offensive.
  Gon. [to Edmund] Then shall you go no further.
     It is the cowish terror of his spirit,
     That dares not undertake. He'll not feel wrongs
     Which tie him to an answer. Our wishes on the way
     May prove effects. Back, Edmund, to my brother.
     Haste