to be sent on errands. Is it fit,
    The three-fold world divided, he should stand
    One of the three to share it?
  OCTAVIUS. So you thoughd him,
    And took his voice who should be prick'd to die
    In our black sentence and proscription.
  ANTONY. Octavius, I have seen more days than you,
    And though we lay these honors on this man
    To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads,
    He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold,
    To groan and sweat under the business,
    Either led or driven, as we point the way;
    And having brought our treasure where we will,
    Then take we down his load and turn him off,
    Like to the empty ass, to shake his ears
    And graze in commons.
  OCTAVIUS. You may do your will,
    But he's a tried and valiant soldier.
  ANTONY. So is my horse, Octavius, and for that
    I do appoint him store of provender.
    It is a creature that I teach to fight,
    To wind, to stop, to run directly on,
    His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit.
    And, in some taste, is Lepidus but so:
    He must be taught, and train'd, and bid go forth;
    A barren-spirited fellow, one that feeds
    On objects, arts, and imitations,
    Which, out of use and staled by other men,
    Begin his fashion. Do not talk of him
    But as a property. And now, Octavius,
    Listen great things. Brutus and Cassius
    Are levying powers; we must straight make head;
    Therefore let our alliance be combined,
    Our best friends made, our means stretch'd;
    And let us presently go sit in council,
    How covert matters may be best disclosed,
    And open perils surest answered.
  OCTAVIUS. Let us do so, for we are at the stake,
    And bay'd about with many enemies;
    And some that smile have in their hearts, I fear,
    Millions of mischiefs.                               Exeunt.




SCENE II.
Camp near Sardis. Before Brutus' tent. Drum.

Enter Brutus, Lucilius, Lucius, and Soldiers; Titinius and Pindarus meet them.

  BRUTUS. Stand, ho!
  LUCILIUS. Give the word, ho, and stand.
  BRUTUS. What now, Lucilius, is Cassius near?
  LUCILIUS. He is at hand, and Pindarus is come
    To do you salutation from his master.
  BRUTUS. He greets me well. Your master, Pindarus,
    In his own change, or by ill officers,
    Hath given me some worthy cause to wish
    Things done undone; but if he be at hand,
    I shall be satisfied.
  PINDARUS. I do not doubt
    But that my noble master will appear
    Such as he is, full of regard and honor.
  BRUTUS. He is not doubted. A word, Lucilius,
    How he received you. Let me be resolved.
  LUCILIUS. With courtesy and with respect enough,
    But not with such familiar instances,
    Nor with such free and friendly conference,
    As he hath used of old.
  BRUTUS. Thou hast described
    A hot friend cooling. Ever note, Lucilius,
    When love begins to sicken and decay
    It useth an enforced ceremony.
    There are no tricks in plain and simple faith;
    But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,
    Make gallant show and promise of their mettle;
    But when they should endure the bloody spur,
    They fall their crests and like deceitful jades
    Sink in the trial. Comes his army on?
  LUCILIUS. They meant his night in Sard is to be quarter'd;
    The greater part, the horse in general,
    Are come with Cassius.                     Low march within.
  BRUTUS. Hark, he is arrived.
    March gently on to meet him.

                  Enter Cassius and his Powers.

  CASSIUS. Stand, ho!
  BRUTUS. Stand, ho! Speak the word along.
  FIRST SOLDIER. Stand!
  SECOND SOLDIER. Stand!
  THIRD SOLDIER. Stand!
  CASSIUS. Most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
  BRUTUS. Judge me, you gods! Wrong I mine enemies?
    And, if not so, how should I wrong a brother?
  CASSIUS. Brutus, this sober form of yours hides wrongs,
    And when you do them-
  BRUTUS. Cassius, be content,
    Speak your griefs softly, I do know you well.
    Before the eyes of both our armies here,
    Which should perceive nothing but love from us,
    Let us not wrangle. Bid them move away;
    Then in my tent, Cassius, enlarge your griefs,
    And I will give you audience.
  CASSIUS. Pindarus,
    Bid our commanders lead their charges off
    A little from this ground.
  BRUTUS. Lucilius, do you the like, and let no man
    Come to our tent till we have done our conference.
    Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door.             Exeunt.




SCENE III.
Brutus' tent.

Enter Brutus and Cassius.

  CASSIUS. That you have wrong'd me doth appear in this:
    You have condemn'd and noted Lucius Pella
    For taking bribes here of the Sardians,
    Wherein my letters, praying on his side,
    Because I knew the man, were slighted off.
  BRUTUS. You wrong'd yourself to write in such a case.
  CASSIUS. In such a time as this it is not meet
    That every nice offense should bear his comment.
  BRUTUS. Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself
    Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm,
    To sell and mart your offices for gold
    To undeservers.
  CASSIUS. I an itching palm?
    You know that you are Brutus that speaks this,
    Or, by the gods, this speech were else your last.
  BRUTUS. The name of Cassius honors this corruption,
    And chastisement doth therefore hide his head.
  CASSIUS. Chastisement?
  BRUTUS. Remember March, the ides of March remember.
    Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake?
    What villain touch'd his body, that did stab,
    And not for justice? What, shall one of us,
    That struck the foremost man of all this world
    But for supporting robbers, shall we now
    Contaminate our fingers with base bribes
    And sell the mighty space of our large honors
    For so much trash as may be grasped thus?
    I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon,
    Than such a Roman.
  CASSIUS. Brutus, bait not me,
    I'll not endure it. You forget yourself
    To hedge me in. I am a soldier, I,
    Older in practice, abler than yourself
    To make conditions.
  BRUTUS. Go to, you are not, Cassius.
  CASSIUS. I am.
  BRUTUS. I say you are not.
  CASSIUS. Urge me no more, I shall forget myself;
    Have mind upon your health, tempt me no farther.
  BRUTUS. Away, slight man!
  CASSIUS. Is't possible?
  BRUTUS. Hear me, for I will speak.
    Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
    Shall I be frighted when a madman stares?
  CASSIUS. O gods, ye gods! Must I endure all this?
  BRUTUS. All this? Ay, more. Fret till your proud heart break.
    Go show your slaves how choleric you are,
    And make your bondmen tremble. Must I bouge?
    Must I observe you? Must I stand and crouch
    Under your testy humor? By the gods,
    You shall digest the venom of your spleen,
    Though it do split you, for, from this day forth,
    I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter,
    When you are waspish.
  CASSIUS. Is it come to this?
  BRUTUS. You say you are a better soldier:
    Let it appear so, make your vaunting true,
    And it shall please me well. For mine own part,
    I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
  CASSIUS. You wrong me every way, you wrong me, Brutus.
    I said, an elder soldier, not a better.
 