ho is here so
    rude that would not be a Roman? If any, speak, for him have I
    offended. Who is here so vile that will not love his country? If
    any, speak, for him have I offended. I pause for a reply.
  ALL. None, Brutus, none.
  BRUTUS. Then none have I offended. I have done no more to Caesar
    than you shall do to Brutus. The question of his death is
    enrolled in the Capitol, his glory not extenuated, wherein he was
    worthy, nor his offenses enforced, for which he suffered death.

              Enter Antony and others, with Caesar's body.

    Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though he had
    no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying, a
    place in the commonwealth, as which of you shall not? With this I
    depart- that, as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome, I
    have the same dagger for myself, when it shall please my country
    to need my death.
  ALL. Live, Brutus, live, live!
  FIRST CITIZEN. Bring him with triumph home unto his house.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Give him a statue with his ancestors.
  THIRD CITIZEN. Let him be Caesar.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Caesar's better parts
    Shall be crown'd in Brutus.
  FIRST CITIZEN. We'll bring him to his house with shouts and
    clamors.
  BRUTUS. My countrymen-
  SECOND CITIZEN. Peace! Silence! Brutus speaks.
  FIRST CITIZEN. Peace, ho!
  BRUTUS. Good countrymen, let me depart alone,
    And, for my sake, stay here with Antony.
    Do grace to Caesar's corse, and grace his speech
    Tending to Caesar's glories, which Mark Antony,
    By our permission, is allow'd to make.
    I do entreat you, not a man depart,
    Save I alone, till Antony have spoke.                  Exit.
  FIRST CITIZEN. Stay, ho, and let us hear Mark Antony.
  THIRD CITIZEN. Let him go up into the public chair;
    We'll hear him. Noble Antony, go up.
  ANTONY. For Brutus' sake, I am beholding to you.
                                           Goes into the pulpit.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. What does he say of Brutus?
  THIRD CITIZEN. He says, for Brutus' sake,
    He finds himself beholding to us all.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. 'Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here.
  FIRST CITIZEN. This Caesar was a tyrant.
  THIRD CITIZEN. Nay, that's certain.
    We are blest that Rome is rid of him.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Peace! Let us hear what Antony can say.
  ANTONY. You gentle Romans-
  ALL. Peace, ho! Let us hear him.
  ANTONY. Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me ’our ears!
    I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
    The evil that men do lives after them,
    The good is oft interred with their bones;
    So let it be with Caesar. The noble Brutus
    Hath told you Caesar was ambitious;
    If it were so, it was a grievous fault,
    And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it.
    Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest-
    For Brutus is an honorable man;
    So are they all, all honorable men-
    Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral.
    He was my friend, faithful and just to me;
    But Brutus says he was ambitious,
    And Brutus is an honorable man.
    He hath brought many captives home to Rome,
    Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill.
    Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?
    When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept;
    Ambition should be made of sterner stuff:
    Yet Brutus says he was ambitious,
    And Brutus is an honorable man.
    You all did see that on the Lupercal
    I thrice presented him a kingly crown,
    Which he did thrice refuse. Was this ambition?
    Yet Brutus says he was ambitious,
    And sure he is an honorable man.
    I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke,
    But here I am to speak what I do know.
    You all did love him once, not without cause;
    What cause withholds you then to mourn for him?
    O judgement, thou art fled to brutish beasts,
    And men have lost their reason. Bear with me;
    My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar,
    And I must pause till it come back to me.
  FIRST CITIZEN. Methinks there is much reason in his sayings.
  SECOND CITIZEN. If thou consider rightly of the matter,
    Caesar has had great wrong.
  THIRD CITIZEN. Has he, masters?
    I fear there will a worse come in his place.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Mark'd ye his words? He would not take the crown;
    Therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious.
  FIRST CITIZEN. If it be found so, some will dear abide it.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Poor soul, his eyes are red as fire with weeping.
  THIRD CITIZEN. There's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Now mark him, he begins again to speak.
  ANTONY. But yesterday the word of Caesar might
    Have stood against the world. Now lies he there,
    And none so poor to do him reverence.
    O masters! If I were disposed to stir
    Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage,
    I should do Brutus wrong and Cassius wrong,
    Who, you all know, are honorable men.
    I will not do them wrong; I rather choose
    To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you,
    Than I will wrong such honorable men.
    But here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar;
    I found it in his closet, 'tis his will.
    Let but the commons hear this testament-
    Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read-
    And they would go and kiss dead Caesar's wounds
    And dip their napkins in his sacred blood,
    Yea, beg a hair of him for memory,
    And, dying, mention it within their wills,
    Bequeathing it as a rich legacy
    Unto their issue.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. We'll hear the will. Read it, Mark Antony.
  ALL. The will, the will! We will hear Caesar's will.
  ANTONY. Have patience, gentle friends, I must not read it;
    It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you.
    You are not wood, you are not stones, but men;
    And, being men, hearing the will of Caesar,
    It will inflame you, it will make you mad.
    'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs,
    For if you should, O, what would come of it!
  FOURTH CITIZEN. Read the will; we'll hear it, Antony.
    You shall read us the will, Caesar's will.
  ANTONY. Will you be patient? Will you stay awhile?
    I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it.
    I fear I wrong the honorable men
    Whose daggers have stabb'd Caesar; I do fear it.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. They were traitors. Honorable men!
  ALL. The will! The testament!
  SECOND CITIZEN. They were villains, murtherers. The will!
    Read the will!
  ANTONY. You will compel me then to read the will?
    Then make a ring about the corse of Caesar,
    And let me show you him that made the will.
    Shall I descend? And will you give me leave?
  ALL. Come down.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Descend.
                                  He comes down from the pulpit.
  THIRD CITIZEN. You shall have leave.
  FOURTH CITIZEN. A ring, stand round.
  FIRST CITIZEN. Stand from the hearse, stand from the body.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Room for Antony, most noble Antony.
  ANTONY. Nay, press not so upon me, stand far off.
  ALL. Stand back; room, bear back!
  ANTONY. If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
    You all do know this mantle. I remember
    The first time ever Caesar put it on;
    'Twas on a summer's evening, in his tent,
    That day he overcame the Nervii.
    Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through;
    See what a rent the envious Casca made;
    Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd;
    And as he pluck'd his cursed steel away,
    Mark how the blood of Caesar follow'd it,
    As rushing out of doors, to be resolved
    If Brutus so unkindly knock'd, or no;
    For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar's angel.
    Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!
    This was the most unkindest cut of all;
    For when the noble Caesar saw him stab,
    Ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms,
    Quite vanquish'd him. Then burst his mighty heart,
    And, in his mantle muffling up his face,
    Even at the base of Pompey's statue,
    Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.
    O, what a fall was there, my countrymen!
    Then I, and you, and all of us fell down,
    Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us.
    O, now you weep, and I perceive you feel
    The dint of pity. These are gracious drops.
    Kind souls, what weep you when you but behold
    Our Caesar's vesture wounded? Look you here,
    Here is himself, marr'd, as you see, with traitors.
  FIRST CITIZEN. O piteous spectacle!
  SECOND CITIZEN. O noble Caesar!
  THIRD CITIZEN. O woeful day!
  FOURTH CITIZEN. O traitors villains!
  FIRST CITIZEN. O most bloody sight!
  SECOND CITIZEN. We will be revenged.
  ALL. Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill!
    Slay! Let not a traitor live!
  ANTONY. Stay, countrymen.
  FIRST CITIZEN. Peace there! Hear the noble Antony.
  SECOND CITIZEN. We'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll die with
    him.
  ANTONY. Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
    To such a sudden flood of mutiny.
    They that have done this deed are honorable.
    What private griefs they have, alas, I know not,
    That made them do it. They are wise and honorable,
    And will, no doubt, with reasons answer you.
    I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts.
    I am no orator, as Brutus is;
    But, as you know me all, a plain blunt man,
    That love my friend, and that they know full well
    That gave me public leave to speak of him.
    For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
    Action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech,
    To stir men's blood. I only speak right on;
    I tell you that which you yourselves do know;
    Show you sweet Caesar's wounds, poor dumb mouths,
    And bid them speak for me. But were I Brutus,
    And Brutus Antony, there were an Antony
    Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue
    In every wound of Caesar that should move
    The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.
  ALL. We'll mutiny.
  FIRST CITIZEN. We'll burn the house of Brutus.
  THIRD CITIZEN. Away, then! Come, seek the conspirators.
  ANTONY. Yet hear me, countrymen; yet hear me speak.
  ALL. P