ith your heart. But, good Kate, mock me mercifully; the
    rather, gentle Princess, because I love thee cruelly. If ever
    thou beest mine, Kate, as I have a saving faith within me tells
    me thou shalt, I get thee with scambling, and thou must therefore
    needs prove a good soldier-breeder. Shall not thou and I, between
    Saint Denis and Saint George, compound a boy, half French, half
    English, that shall go to Constantinople and take the Turk by the
    beard? Shall we not? What say'st thou, my fair flower-de-luce?
  KATHERINE. I do not know dat.
  KING HENRY. No: 'tis hereafter to know, but now to promise; do but
    now promise, Kate, you will endeavour for your French part of
    such a boy; and for my English moiety take the word of a king and
    a bachelor. How answer you, la plus belle Katherine du monde, mon
   tres cher et divin deesse?
  KATHERINE. Your Majestee ave fausse French enough to deceive de
    most sage damoiselle dat is en France.
  KING HENRY. Now, fie upon my false French! By mine honour, in true
    English, I love thee, Kate; by which honour I dare not swear thou
    lovest me; yet my blood begins to flatter me that thou dost,
    notwithstanding the poor and untempering effect of my visage. Now
    beshrew my father's ambition! He was thinking of civil wars when
    he got me; therefore was I created with a stubborn outside, with
    an aspect of iron, that when I come to woo ladies I fright them.
    But, in faith, Kate, the elder I wax, the better I shall appear:
    my comfort is, that old age, that in layer-up of beauty, can do
    no more spoil upon my face; thou hast me, if thou hast me, at the
    worst; and thou shalt wear me, if thou wear me, better and
    better. And therefore tell me, most fair Katherine, will you have
    me? Put off your maiden blushes; avouch the thoughts of your
    heart with the looks of an empress; take me by the hand and say
    'Harry of England, I am thine.' Which word thou shalt no sooner
    bless mine ear withal but I will tell thee aloud 'England is
    thine, Ireland is thine, France is thine, and Henry Plantagenet
    is thine'; who, though I speak it before his face, if he be not
    fellow with the best king, thou shalt find the best king of good
    fellows. Come, your answer in broken music- for thy voice is
    music and thy English broken; therefore, Queen on all, Katherine,
    break thy mind to me in broken English, wilt thou have me?
  KATHERINE. Dat is as it shall please de roi mon pere.
  KING HENRY. Nay, it will please him well, Kate- it shall please
    him, Kate.
  KATHERINE. Den it sall also content me.
  KING HENRY. Upon that I kiss your hand, and I can you my queen.
  KATHERINE. Laissez, mon seigneur, laissez, laissez! Ma foi, je ne
    veux point que vous abaissiez votre grandeur en baisant la main
    d'une, notre seigneur, indigne serviteur; excusez-moi, je vous
    supplie, mon tres puissant seigneur.
  KING HENRY. Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
  KATHERINE. Les dames et demoiselles pour etre baisees devant leur
    noces, il n'est pas la coutume de France.
  KING HENRY. Madame my interpreter, what says she?
  ALICE. Dat it is not be de fashion pour le ladies of France- I
    cannot tell vat is baiser en Anglish.
  KING HENRY. To kiss.
  ALICE. Your Majestee entendre bettre que moi.
  KING HENRY. It is not a fashion for the maids in France to kiss
    before they are married, would she say?
  ALICE. Oui, vraiment.
  KING HENRY. O Kate, nice customs curtsy to great kings. Dear Kate,
    you and I cannot be confin'd within the weak list of a country's
    fashion; we are the makers of manners, Kate; and the liberty that
    follows our places stops the mouth of all find-faults- as I will
    do yours for upholding the nice fashion of your country in
    denying me a kiss; therefore, patiently and yielding.  [Kissing
    her]  You have witchcraft in your lips, Kate: there is more
    eloquence in a sugar touch of them than in the tongues of the
    French council; and they should sooner persuade Henry of England
    than a general petition of monarchs. Here comes your father.

             Enter the FRENCH POWER and the ENGLISH LORDS

  BURGUNDY. God save your Majesty! My royal cousin,
    Teach you our princess English?
  KING HENRY. I would have her learn, my fair cousin, how perfectly I
    love her; and that is good English.
  BURGUNDY. Is she not apt?
  KING HENRY. Our tongue is rough, coz, and my condition is not
    smooth; so that, having neither the voice nor the heart of
    flattery about me, I cannot so conjure up the spirit of love in
    her that he will appear in his true likeness.
  BURGUNDY. Pardon the frankness of my mirth, if I answer you for
    that. If you would conjure in her, you must make a circle; if
    conjure up love in her in his true likeness, he must appear naked
    and blind. Can you blame her, then, being a maid yet ros'd over
    with the virgin crimson of modesty, if she deny the appearance of
    a naked blind boy in her naked seeing self? It were, my lord, a
    hard condition for a maid to consign to.
  KING HENRY. Yet they do wink and yield, as love is blind and
    enforces.
  BURGUNDY. They are then excus'd, my lord, when they see not what
    they do.
  KING HENRY. Then, good my lord, teach your cousin to consent
    winking.
  BURGUNDY. I will wink on her to consent, my lord, if you will teach
    her to know my meaning; for maids well summer'd and warm kept are
    like flies at Bartholomew-tide, blind, though they have their
    eyes; and then they will endure handling, which before would not
    abide looking on.
  KING HENRY. This moral ties me over to time and a hot summer; and
    so I shall catch the fly, your cousin, in the latter end, and she
    must be blind too.
  BURGUNDY. As love is, my lord, before it loves.
  KING HENRY. It is so; and you may, some of you, thank love for my
    blindness, who cannot see many a fair French city for one fair
    French maid that stands in my way.
  FRENCH KING. Yes, my lord, you see them perspectively, the cities
    turned into a maid; for they are all girdled with maiden walls
    that war hath never ent'red.
  KING HENRY. Shall Kate be my wife?
  FRENCH KING. So please you.
  KING HENRY. I am content, so the maiden cities you talk of may wait
    on her; so the maid that stood in the way for my wish shall show
    me the way to my will.
  FRENCH KING. We have consented to all terms of reason.
  KING HENRY. Is't so, my lords of England?
  WESTMORELAND. The king hath granted every article:
    His daughter first; and then in sequel, all,
    According to their firm proposed natures.
  EXETER. Only he hath not yet subscribed this:
      Where your Majesty demands that the King of France, having any
    occasion to write for matter of grant, shall name your Highness
    in this form and with this addition, in French, Notre tres cher
    fils Henri, Roi d'Angleterre, Heritier de France; and thus in
    Latin, Praeclarissimus filius noster Henricus, Rex Angliae et
    Haeres Franciae.
  FRENCH KING. Nor this I have not, brother, so denied
    But our request shall make me let it pass.
  KING HENRY. I pray you, then, in love and dear alliance,
    Let that one article rank with the rest;
    And ther