 put thy rapier up.
  Mer. Come, sir, your passado!
                                                   [They fight.]
  Rom. Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.
    Gentlemen, for shame! forbear this outrage!
    Tybalt, Mercutio, the Prince expressly hath
    Forbid this bandying in Verona streets.
    Hold, Tybalt! Good Mercutio!
         Tybalt under Romeo's arm thrusts Mercutio in, and flies
                                           [with his Followers].
  Mer. I am hurt.
    A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
    Is he gone and hath nothing?
  Ben. What, art thou hurt?
  Mer. Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch. Marry, 'tis enough.
    Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
                                                    [Exit Page.]
  Rom. Courage, man. The hurt cannot be much.
  Mer. No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door;
    but 'tis enough, 'twill serve. Ask for me to-morrow, and you
    shall find me a grave man. I am peppered, I warrant, for this
    world. A plague o' both your houses! Zounds, a dog, a rat, a
    mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a rogue, a
    villain, that fights by the book of arithmetic! Why the devil
    came you between us? I was hurt under your arm.
  Rom. I thought all for the best.
  Mer. Help me into some house, Benvolio,
    Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!
    They have made worms' meat of me. I have it,
    And soundly too. Your houses!
                                 [Exit. [supported by Benvolio].
  Rom. This gentleman, the Prince's near ally,
    My very friend, hath got this mortal hurt
    In my behalf- my reputation stain'd
    With Tybalt's slander- Tybalt, that an hour
    Hath been my kinsman. O sweet Juliet,
    Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
    And in my temper soft'ned valour's steel

                      Enter Benvolio.

  Ben. O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
    That gallant spirit hath aspir'd the clouds,
    Which too untimely here did scornäthe earth.
  Rom. This day's black fate on moe days doth depend;
    This but begins the woe others must end.

                       Enter Tybalt.

  Ben. Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
  Rom. Alive in triumph, and Mercutio slain?
    Away to heaven respective lenity,
    And fire-ey'd fury be my conduct now!
    Now, Tybalt, take the 'villain' back again
    That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
    Is but a little way above our heads,
    Staying for thine to keep him company.
    Either thou or I, or both, must go with him.
  Tyb. Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
    Shalt with him hence.
  Rom. This shall determine that.
                                       They fight. Tybalt falls.
  Ben. Romeo, away, be gone!
    The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
    Stand not amaz'd. The Prince will doom thee death
    If thou art taken. Hence, be gone, away!
  Rom. O, I am fortune's fool!
  Ben. Why dost thou stay?
                                                     Exit Romeo.
                      Enter Citizens.

  Citizen. Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?
    Tybalt, that murtherer, which way ran he?
  Ben. There lies that Tybalt.
  Citizen. Up, sir, go with me.
    I charge thee in the Prince's name obey.

  Enter Prince [attended], Old Montague, Capulet, their Wives,
                     and [others].

  Prince. Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
  Ben. O noble Prince. I can discover all
    The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl.
    There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
    That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
  Cap. Wife. Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child!
    O Prince! O husband! O, the blood is spill'd
    Of my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,
    For blood of ours shed blood of Montague.
    O cousin, cousin!
  Prince. Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
  Ben. Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did stay.
    Romeo, that spoke him fair, bid him bethink
    How nice the quarrel was, and urg'd withal
    Your high displeasure. All this- uttered
    With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd-
    Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
    Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
    With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast;
    Who, all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
    And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
    Cold death aside and with the other sends
    It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity
    Retorts it. Romeo he cries aloud,
    'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and swifter than his tongue,
    His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
    And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
    An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
    Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;
    But by-and-by comes back to Romeo,
    Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
    And to't they go like lightning; for, ere I
    Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain;
    And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
    This is the