
  NORFOLK. This same Cranmer's
    A worthy fellow, and hath ta'en much pain
    In the King's business.
  SUFFOLK. He has; and we shall see him
    For it an archbishop.
  NORFOLK. So I hear.
  SUFFOLK. 'Tis so.

        Enter WOLSEY and CROMWELL

    The Cardinal!
  NORFOLK. Observe, observe, he's moody.
  WOLSEY. The packet, Cromwell,
    Gave't you the King?
  CROMWELL. To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
  WOLSEY. Look'd he o' th' inside of the paper?
  CROMWELL. Presently
    He did unseal them; and the first he view'd,
    He did it with a serious mind; a heed
    Was in his countenance. You he bade
    Attend him here this morning.
  WOLSEY. Is he ready
    To come abroad?
  CROMWELL. I think by this he is.
  WOLSEY. Leave me awhile.                              Exit CROMWELL
    [Aside]  It shall be to the Duchess of Alencon,
    The French King's sister; he shall marry her.
    Anne Bullen! No, I'll no Anne Bullens for him;
    There's more in't than fair visage. Bullen!
    No, we'll no Bullens. Speedily I wish
    To hear from Rome. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
  NORFOLK. He's discontented.
  SUFFOLK. May be he hears the King
    Does whet his anger to him.
  SURREY. Sharp enough,
    Lord, for thy justice!
  WOLSEY.  [Aside]  The late Queen's gentlewoman, a knight's
      daughter,
    To be her mistress' mistress! The Queen's queen!
    This candle burns not clear. 'Tis I must snuff it;
    Then out it goes. What though I know her virtuous
    And well deserving? Yet I know her for
    A spleeny Lutheran; and not wholesome to
    Our cause that she should lie i' th' bosom of
    Our hard-rul'd King. Again, there is sprung up
    An heretic, an arch one, Cranmer; one
    Hath crawl'd into the favour of the King,
    And is his oracle.
  NORFOLK. He is vex'd at something.

        Enter the KING, reading of a schedule, and LOVELL

  SURREY. I would 'twere something that would fret the string,
    The master-cord on's heart!
  SUFFOLK. The King, the King!
  KING. What piles of wealth hath he accumulated
    To his own portion! And what expense by th' hour
    Seems to flow from him! How, i' th' name of thrift,
    Does he rake this together?-Now, my lords,
    Saw you the Cardinal?
  NORFOLK. My lord, we have
    Stood here observing him. Some strange commotion
    Is in his brain: he bites his lip and starts,
    Stops on a sudden, looks upon the ground,
    Then lays his finger on his temple; straight
    Springs out into fast gait; then stops again,
    Strikes his breast hard; and anon he casts
    His eye against the moon. In most strange postures
    We have seen him set himself.
  KING. It may well be
    There is a mutiny in's mind. This morning
    Papers of state he sent me to peruse,
    As I requir'd; and wot you what I found
    There-on my conscience, put unwittingly?
    Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing
    The several parcels of his plate, his treasure,
    Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household; which
    I find at such proud rate that it outspeaks
    Possession of a subject.
  NORFOLK. It's heaven's will;
    Some spirit put this paper in the packet
    To bless your eye withal.
  KING. If we did think
    His contemplation were above the earth
    And fix'd on spiritual object, he should still
    dwell in his musings; but I am afraid
    His thinkings are below the moon, not worth
    His serious considering.
                        [The KING takes his seat and whispers LOVELL,
                                           who goes to the CARDINAL]
  WOLSEY. Heaven forgive me!
    Ever God bless your Highness!
  KING. Good, my lord,
    You are full of heavenly stuff, and bear the inventory
    Of your best graces in your mind; the which
    You were now running o'er. You have scarce time
    To steal from spiritual leisure a brief span
    To keep your earthly audit; sure, in that
    I deem you an ill husband, and am glad
    To have you therein my companion.
  WOLSEY. Sir,
    For holy offices I have a time; a time
    To think upon the part of business which
    I bear i' th' state; and nature does require
    Her times of preservation, which perforce
    I, her frail son, amongst my brethren mortal,
    Must give my tendance to.
  KING. You have said well.
  WOLSEY. And ever may your Highness yoke together,
    As I will lend you cause, my doing well
    With my well saying!
  KING. 'Tis well said again;
    And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well;
    And yet words are no deeds. My father lov'd you:
    He said he did; and with his deed did crown
    His word upon you. Since I had my office
    I have kept you next my heart; have not alone
    Employ'd you where high profits might come home,
    But par'd my present havings to bestow
    My bounties upon you.
  WOLSEY.  [Aside]  What should this mean?
  SURREY.  [Aside]  The Lord increase this business!
  KING. Have I not made you
    The prime man of the state? I pray you tell me
    If what I now pronounce you have found true;
    And, if you may confess it, say withal
    If you are bound to us or no. What say you?
  WOLSEY. My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,
    Show'r'd on me daily, have been more than could
    My studied purposes requite; which went
    Beyond all man's endeavours. My endeavours,
    Have ever come too short of my desires,
    Yet fil'd with my abilities; mine own ends
    Have been mine so that evermore they pointed
    To th' good of your most sacred person and
    The profit of the state. For your great graces
    Heap'd upon me, poor undeserver, I
    Can nothing render but allegiant thanks;
    My pray'rs to heaven for you; my loyalty,
    Which ever has and ever shall be growing,
    Till death, that winter, kill it.
  KING. Fairly answer'd!
    A loyal and obedient subject is
    Therein illustrated; the honour of it
    Does pay the act of it, as, i' th' contrary,
    The foulness is the punishment. I presume
    That, as my hand has open'd bounty to you,
    My heart dropp'd love, my pow'r rain'd honour, more
    On you than any, so your hand and heart,
    Your brain, and every function of your power,
    Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty,
    As 'twere in love's particular, be more
    To me, your friend, than any.
  WOLSEY. I do profess
    That for your Highness' good I ever labour'd
    More than mine own; that am, have, and will be-
    Though all the world should crack their duty to you,
    And throw it from their soul; though perils did
    Abound as thick as thought could make 'em, and
    Appear in forms more horrid-yet my duty,
    As doth a rock against the chiding flood,
    Should the approach of this wild river break,
    And stand unshaken yours.
  KING. 'Tis nobly spoken.
    Take notice, lords, he has a loyal breast,
    For you have seen him open 't. Read o'er this;
                                                  [Giving him papers]
    And after, this; and then to breakfast with
    What appetite you have.
                Exit the KING, frowning upon the CARDINAL; the NOBLES
                             throng after him, smiling and whispering
  WOLSEY. What should this mean?
    What sudden anger's this? How have I reap'd it?
    He parted frowning from me, as if ruin
    Leap'd from his eyes; so looks the chafed lion
    Upon the daring huntsman that has gall'd him-
    Then makes him nothing. I must read this paper;
    I fear, the ctory of his anger. 'Tis so;
    This paper has undone me. 'Tis th' account
    Of all that world of wealth I have drawn together
    For mine own ends; indeed to gain the popedom,
    And 