DA. Alas, now; pray you,
    Work not so hard; I would the lightning had
    Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile.
    Pray, set it down and rest you; when this burns,
    'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father
    Is hard at study; pray, now, rest yourself;
    He's safe for these three hours.
  FERDINAND. O most dear mistress,
    The sun will set before I shall discharge
    What I must strive to do.
  MIRANDA. If you'll sit down,
    I'll bear your logs the while; pray give me that;
    I'll carry it to the pile.
  FERDINAND. No, precious creature;
    I had rather crack my sinews, break my back,
    Than you should such dishonour undergo,
    While I sit lazy by.
  MIRANDA. It would become me
    As well as it does you; and I should do it
    With much more ease; for my good will is to it,
    And yours it is against.
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Poor worm, thou art infected!
    This visitation shows it.
  MIRANDA. You look wearily.
  FERDINAND. No, noble mistress; 'tis fresh morning with me
    When you are by at night. I do beseech you,
    Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers,
    What is your name?
  MIRANDA. Miranda-O my father,
    I have broke your hest to say so!
  FERDINAND. Admir'd Miranda!
    What's dearest to the world! Full many a lady
    I have ey'd with best regard; and many a time
    Th' harmony of their tongues hath into bondage
    Brought my too diligent ear; for several virtues
    Have I lik'd several women, never any
    With so full soul, but some defect in her
    Did quarrel with the noblest grace she ow'd,
    And put it to the foil; but you, O you,
    So perfect and so peerless, are created
    Of every creature's best!
  MIRANDA. I do not know
    One of my sex; no woman's face remember,
    Save, from my glass, mine own; nor have I seen
    More that I may call men than you, good friend,
    And my dear father. How features are abroad,
    I am skilless of; but, by my modesty,
    The jewel in my dower, I would not wish
    Any companion in the world but you;
    Nor can imagination form a shape,
    Besides yourself, to like of. But I prattle
    Something too wildly, and my father's precepts
    I therein do forget.
  FERDINAND. I am, in my condition,
    A prince, Miranda; I do think, a king-
    I would not so!-and would no more endure
    This wooden slavery than to suffer
    The flesh-fly blow my mouth. Hear my soul speak:
    The very instant that I saw you, did
    My heart fly to your service; there resides
    To make me slave to it; and for your sake
    Am I this patient$log-man.
  MIRANDA. Do you love me?
  FERDINAND. O heaven, O earth, bear witness to this sound,
    And crown what I profess with kind event,
    If I speak true! If hollowly, invert
    What best is boded me to mischief! I,
    Beyond all limit of what else i' th' world,
    Do love, prize, honour you.
  MIRANDA. I am a fool
    To weep at what I am glad of.
  PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Fair encounter
    Of two most rare affections! Heavens rain grace
    On that which breeds between 'em!
  FERDINAND. Wherefore weep you?
  MIRANDA. At mine unworthiness, that dare not offer
    What I desire to give, and much less take
    What I shall die to want. But this is trifling;
    And all the more it seeks to hide itself,
    The bigger bulk it shows. Hence, bashful cunning!
    And prompt me, plain and holy innocence!
    I am your wife, if you will marry me;
    If not, I'll die your maid. To be your fellow
    You may deny me; but I'll be your servant,
    Whether you will or no.
  FERDINAND. My mistress, dearest;
    And I thus humble ever.
  MIRANDA. My husband, then?
  FERDINAND. Ay, with a heart as willing
    As bondage e'er of freedom. Here's my hand.
  MIRANDA. And mine, with my heart in't. And now farewell
    Till half an hour hence.
  FERDINAND. A thousand thousand!
                          Exeunt FERDINAND and MIRANDA severally
  PROSPERO. So glad of this as they I cannot be,
    Who are surpris'd withal; but my rejoicing
    At nothing can be more. I'll to my book;
    For yet ere supper time must I perform
    Much business appertaining.                             Exit




SCENE 2

Another part of the island

Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO

  STEPHANO. Tell not me-when the butt is out we will drink
    water, not a drop before; therefore bear up, and board
    'em. Servant-monster, drink to me.
  TRINCULO. Servant-monster! The folly of this island! They
    say there's but five upon this isle: we are three of
    them; if th' other two be brain'd like us, the state
    totters.
  STEPHANO. Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee; thy
    eyes are almost set in thy head.
  TRINCULO. Where should they be set else? He were a brave
    monster indeed, if they were set in his tail.
  STEPHANO. My man-monster hath drown'd his tongue in
    sack. For my part, the sea cannot drown me; I swam, ere
    I could recover the shore, five and thirty leagues, off
    and on. By this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant,
    monster, or my standard.
  TRINCULO. Your lieutenant, if you list; he's no standard.
  STEPHANO. We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.
  TRINCULO. Nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs, and
    yet say nothing neither.
  STEPHANO. Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest
    a good moon-calf.
  CALIBAN. How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.
    I'll not serve him; he is not valiant.
  TRINCULO. Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case
    to justle a constable. Why, thou debosh'd fish, thou,
    was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much sack
    as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie, being but
    half fish and half a monster?
  CALIBAN. Lo, how he mocks me! Wilt thou let him, my
    lord?
  TRINCULO. 'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such
    a natural!
  CALIBAN. Lo, lo again! Bite him to death, I prithee.
  STEPHANO. Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head; if
    you prove a mutineer-the next tree! The poor monster's
    my subject, and he shall not suffer indignity.
  CALIBAN. I thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleas'd to
    hearken once again to the suit I made to thee?
  STEPHANO. Marry will I; kneel and repeat it; I will stand,
    and so shall Trinculo.

                     Enter ARIEL, invisible

  CALIBAN. As I told thee before, I am subject to a tyrant,
    sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the
    island.
  ARIEL. Thou liest.
  CALIBAN. Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou;
    I would my valiant master would destroy thee.
    I do not lie.
  STEPHANO. Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale,
    by this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth.
  TRINCULO. Why, I said nothing.
  STEPHANO. Mum, then, and no more. Proceed.
  CALIBAN. I say, by sorcery he got this isle;
    From me he got it. If thy greatness will
    Revenge it on him-for I know thou dar'st,
    But this thing dare not-
  STEPHANO. That's most certain.
  CALIBAN. Thou shalt be lord of it, and I'll serve thee.
  STEPHANO. How now shall this be compass'd? Canst thou
    bring me to the party?
  CALIBAN. Yea, yea, my lord; I'll yield him thee asleep,
    Where thou mayst knock a nail into his head.
  ARIEL. Thou liest; thou canst not.
  CALIBAN. What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!
    I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows,
    And take his bottle from him. When that's gone
    He shall drink nought but brine; for I'll not show him
    Where the quick freshes are.
  STEPHANO. Trinculo, run into no further danger; interrupt
    the monster one word further and, by this hand, I'll turn
    my mercy out o' doors, and make a stock-fish of thee.
  TRINCULO. Why, what did I? I did nothing. I'll go farther
    off.
  STEPHANO. Didst thou not say he lied?
  ARIEL