o Romeo.
  Benvolio, nephew to Montague, and friend to Romeo
  Tybalt, nephew to Lady Capulet.
  Friar Laurence, Franciscan.
  Friar John, Franciscan.
  Balthasar, servant to Romeo.
  Abram, servant to Montague.
  Sampson, servant to Capulet.
  Gregory, servant to Capulet.
  Peter, servant to Juliet's nurse.
  An Apothecary.
  Three Musicians.
  An Officer.

  Lady Montague, wife to Montague.
  Lady Capulet, wife to Capulet.
  Juliet, daughter to Capulet.
  Nurse to Juliet.

  Citizens of Verona; Gentlemen and Gentlewomen of both houses;
    Maskers, Torchbearers, Pages, Guards, Watchmen, Servants, and
    Attendants.

                            SCENE.--Verona; Mantua.



                        THE PROLOGUE

                        Enter Chorus.

  Chor. Two households, both alike in dignity,
    In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
    From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
    Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
    From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
    A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life;
    Whose misadventur'd piteous overthrows
    Doth with their death bury their parents' strife.
    The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
    And the continuance of their parents' rage,
    Which, but their children's end, naught could remove,
    Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage;
    The which if you with patient ears attend,
    What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
                                                         [Exit.]




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT I. Scene I.
Verona. A public place.

Enter Sampson and Gregory (with swords and bucklers) of the house of Capuled.

  Samp. Gregory, on my word, we'll not carry coals.
  Greg. No, for then we should be colliers.
  Samp. I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
  Greg. Ay, while you live, draw your neck out of collar.
  Samp. I strike quickly, being moved.
  Greg. But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
  Samp. A dog of the house of Montague moves me.
  Greg. To move is to stir, and to be valiant is to stand.
    Therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
  Samp. A dog of that house shall move me to stand. I will take the
    wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
  Greg. That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes to the
    wall.
  Samp. 'Tis true; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels, are
    ever thrust to the wall. Therefore I will push Montague's men
    from the wall and thrust his maids to the wall.
  Greg. The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
  Samp. 'Tis all one. I will show myself a tyrant. When I have fought
    with the men, I will be cruel with the maids- I will cut off
    their heads.
  Greg. The heads of the maids?
  Samp. Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads.
    Take it in what sense thou wilt.
  Greg. They must take it in sense that feel it.
  Samp. Me they shall feel while I am able to stand; and 'tis known I
    am a pretty piece of flesh.
  Greg. 'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou hadst been
    poor-John. Draw thy tool! Here comes two of the house of
    Montagues.

           Enter two other Servingmen [Abram and Balthasar].

  Samp. My naked weapon is out. Quarrel! I will back thee.
  Greg. How? turn thy back and run?
  Samp. Fear me not.
  Greg. No, marry. I fear thee!
  Samp. Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.
  Greg. I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as they list.
  Samp. Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them; which is
    disgrace to them, if they bear it.
  Abr. Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
  Samp. I do bite my thumb, sir.
  Abr. Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
  Samp. [aside to Gregory] Is the law of our side if I say ay?
  Greg. [aside to Sampson] No.
  Samp. No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir; but I bite my
    thumb, sir.
  Greg. Do you quarrel, sir?
  Abr. Quarrel, sir? No, sir.
  Samp. But if you do, sir, am for you. I serve as good a man as you.
  Abr. No better.
  Samp. Well, sir.

                        Enter Benvolio.

  Greg. [aside to Sampson] Say 'better.' Here comes one of my
    master's kinsmen.
  Samp. Yes, better, sir.
  Abr. You lie.
  Samp. Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
                                                     They fight.
  Ben. Part, fools! [Beats down their swords.]
    Put up your swords. You know not what you do.

                          Enter Tybalt.

  Tyb. What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
    Turn thee Benvolio! look upon thy death.
  Ben. I do but keep the peace. Put up thy sword,
    Or manage it to part these men with me.
  Tyb. What, drawn, and talk of peace? I hate the word
    As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee.
    Have at thee, coward!                            They fight.

     Enter an officer, and three or four Citizens with clubs or
                          partisans.

  Officer. Clubs, bills, and partisans! Strike! beat them down!
  Citizens. Down with the Capulets! Down with the Montagues!

           Enter Old Capulet in his gown, and his Wife.

  Cap. What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
  Wife. A crutch, a crutch! Why call you for a sword?
  Cap. My sword, I say! Old Montague is come
    And flourishes his blade in spite of me.

                 Enter Old Montague and his Wife.

  Mon. Thou villain Capulet!- Hold me not, let me go.
  M. Wife. Thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe.

                Enter Prince Escalus, with his Train.

  Prince. Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
    Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel-
    Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,
    That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
    With purple fountains issuing from your veins!
    On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
    Throw your mistempered weapons to the ground
    And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
    Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word
    By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
    Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets
    And made Verona's ancient citizens
    Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments
    To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
    Cank'red with peace, to part your cank'red hate.
    If ever you disturb our streets again,
    Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
    For this time all the rest depart away.
    You, Capulet, shall go along with me;
    And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
    To know our farther pleasure in this case,
    To old Freetown, our common judgment place.
    Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
              Exeunt [all but Montague, his Wife, and Benvolio].
  Mon. Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?
    Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
  Ben. Here were the servants of your adversary
    And yours, close fighting ere I did approach.
    I drew to part them. In the instant came
    The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepar'd;
    Which, as he breath'd defiance to my ears,
    He swung about his head and cut the winds,
    Who, nothing hurt withal, hiss'd him in scorn.
    While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
    Came more and more, and fought on part and part,
    Till the Prince came, who parted either part.
  M. Wife. O, where is Romeo? Saw you him to-day?
    Right glad I am he was not at this fray.