ust tell thee plainly, Claudio
    undergoes my challenge; and either I must shortly hear from him
    or I will subscribe him a coward. And I pray thee now tell me,
    for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
  Beat. For them all together, which maintain'd so politic a state of
    evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with
    them. But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love
    for me?
  Bene. Suffer love!--a good epithet. I do suffer love indeed, for I
    love thee against my will.
  Beat. In spite of your heart, I think. Alas, poor heart! If you
    spite it for my sake, I will spite it for yours, for I will never
    love that which my friend hates.
  Bene. Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably.
  Beat. It appears not in this confession. There's not one wise man
    among twenty, that will praise himself.
  Bene. An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that liv'd in the time of
    good neighbours. If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb
    ere he dies, he shall live no longer in monument than the bell
    rings and the widow weeps.
  Beat. And how long is that, think you?
  Bene. Question: why, an hour in clamour and a quarter in rheum.
    Therefore is it most expedient for the wise, if Don Worm (his
    conscience) find no impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet
    of his own virtues, as I am to myself. So much for praising
    myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is praiseworthy. And now
    tell me, how doth your cousin?
  Beat. Very ill.
  Bene. And how do you?
  Beat. Very ill too.
  Bene. Serve God, love me, and mend. There will I leave you too, for
    here comes one in haste.

                         Enter Ursula.

  Urs. Madam, you must come to your uncle. Yonder's old coil at home.
    It is proved my Hady Hero hath been falsely accus'd, the Prince
    and Claudio mightily abus'd, and Don John is the author of all,
    who is fled and gone. Will you come presently?
  Beat. Will you go hear this news, signior?
  Bene. I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be buried thy
    eyes; and moreover, I will go with thee to thy uncle's.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene III.
A churchyard.

Enter Claudio, Don Pedro, and three or four with tapers,
[followed by Musicians].

  Claud. Is this the monument of Leonato?
  Lord. It is, my lord.
  Claud. [reads from a scroll]

                      Epitaph.

        Done to death by slanderous tongues
          Was the Hero that here lies.
        Death, in guerdon of her wrongs,
          Gives her fame which never dies.
        So the life that died with shame
        Lives in death with glorious fame.

    Hang thou there upon the tomb,
                                          [Hangs up the scroll.]
    Praising her when I am dumb.
    Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn.

                     Song.

        Pardon, goddess of the night,
        Those that slew thy virgin knight;
        For the which, with songs of woe,
        Round about her tomb they go.
        Midnight, assist our moan,
        Help us to sigh and groan
          Heavily, heavily,
        Graves, yawn and yield your dead,
        Till death be uttered
          Heavily, heavily.

  Claud. Now unto thy bones good night!
    Yearly will I do this rite.
  Pedro. Good morrow, masters. Put your torches out.
    The wolves have prey'd, and look, the gentle day,
    Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about
    Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
    Thanks to you all, and leave us. Fare you well.
  Claud. Good morrow, masters. Each his several way.
  Pedro. Come, let us hence and put on other weeds,
    And then to Leonato's we will go.
  Claud. And Hymen now with luckier issue speeds
    Than this for whom we rend'red up this woe.          Exeunt.




Scene IV
The hall in Leonato's house.

Enter Leonato, Benedick, [Beatrice,] Margaret, Ursula, Antonio,
Friar [Francis], Hero.

  Friar. Did I not tell you she was innocent?
  Leon. So are the Prince and Claudio, who accus'd her
    Upon the error that you heard debated.
    But Margaret was in some fault for this,
    Although against her will, as it appears
    In the true course of all the question.
  Ant. Well, I am glad that all things sort so well.
  Bene. And so am I, being else by faith enforc'd
    To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
  Leon. Well, daughter, and you gentlewomen all,
    Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves,
    And when I send for you, come hither mask'd.
                                                  Exeunt Ladies.
    The Prince and Claudio promis'd by this hour
    To visit me. You know your office, brother:
    You must be father to your brother's daughter,
    And give her to young Claudio.
  Ant. Which I will do with confirm'd countenance.
  Bene. Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.
  Friar. To do what, signior?
  Bene. To bind me, or undo me--one of them.
    Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior,
    Your niece regards me with an eye of favour.
  Leon. That eye my daughter lent her. 'Tis most true.
  Bene. And I do with an eye of love requite her.
  Leon. The sight whereof I think you had from me,
    From Claudio, and the Prince; but what's your will?
  Bene. Your answer, sir, is enigmatical;
    But, for my will, my will is, your good will
    May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd
    In the state of honourable marriage;
    In which, good friar, I shall desire your help.
  Leon. My heart is with your liking.
  Friar. And my help.

       Enter Don Pedro and Claudio and two or three other.

    Here comes the Prince and Claudio.
  Pedro. Good morrow to this fair assembly.
  Leon. Good morrow, Prince; good morrow, Claudio.
    We here attend you. Are you yet determin'd
    To-day to marry with my brother's daughter?
  Claud. I'll hold my mind, were she an Ethiope.
  Leon. Call her forth, brother. Here's the friar ready.
                                                 [Exit Antonio.]
  Pedro. Good morrow, Benedick. Why, what's the matter
    That you have such a February face,
    So full of frost, of storm, and cloudiness?
  Claud. I think he thinks upon the savage bull.
    Tush, fear not, man! We'll tip thy horns with gold,
    And all Europa shall rejoice at thee,
    As once Europa did at lusty Jove
    When he would play the noble beast in love.
  Bene. Bull Jove, sir, had an amiable low,
    And some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow
    And got a calf in that same noble feat
    Much like to you, for you have just his bleat.

       Enter [Leonato's] brother [Antonio], Hero, Beatrice,
            Margaret, Ursula, [the ladies wearing masks].

  Claud. For this I owe you. Here comes other reckonings.
    Which is the lady I must seize upon?
  Ant. This same is she, and I do give you her.
  Claud. Why then, she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face.
  Leon. No, that you shall not till you take her hand
    Before this friar and swear to marry her.
  Claud. Give me your hand before this holy friar.
    I am your husband if you like of me.
  Hero. And when I liv'd I was your other wife;       [Unmasks.]
    And when you lov'd you were my other husband.
  Claud. Another Hero!
  Hero. Nothing certainer.
    One Hero died defil'd; but I do live,
    And surely as I live, I am a maid.
  Pedro. The former Hero! Hero that is dead!
  Leon. She died, my lord, but whiles her slander liv'd.
  Friar. All this amazement can I qualify,
    When, after that the holy rites are ended,
    I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death.
    Meantime let wonder seem familiar,
    And to the chapel let us presently.
  Bene. Soft and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice?
  Beat. [unmasks] I answer to that name. What is your will?
  Bene. Do not you love me?
  Beat. Why, no; no more than reason.
  Bene. Why, then your uncle, and the Prince, and Claudio
    Have been deceived; for they swore you did.
  Beat. Do not you love me?
  Bene. Troth, no; no more than reason.
  Beat. Why, then my cousin, Margaret, and Ursula
    Are much deceiv'd; for they did swear you did.
  Bene. They swore that you were almost sick for me.
  Beat. They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me.
  Bene. 'Tis no such matter. Then you do not love me?
  Beat. No, truly, but in friendly recompense.
  Leon. Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman.
  Claud. And I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her;
    For here's a paper written in his hand,
    A halting sonnet of his own pure brain,
    Fashion'd to Beatrice.
  Hero. And here's another,
  