 I spy a danger), I entreat you
     To bring but five-and-twenty. To no more
     Will I give place or notice.
  Lear. I gave you all-
  Reg. And in good time you gave it!
  Lear. Made you my guardians, my depositaries;
     But kept a reservation to be followed
     With such a number. What, must I come to you
     With five-and-twenty,$Regan? Said you so?
  Reg. And speak't again my lord. No more with me.
  Lear. Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour'd
     When others are more wicked; not being the worst
     Stands in some rank of praise. [To Goneril] I'll go with thee.
     Thy fifty yet doth double five-and-twenty,
     And thou art twice her love.
  Gon. Hear, me, my lord.
     What need you five-and-twenty, ten, or five,
     To follow in a house where twice so many
     Have a command to tend you?
  Reg. What need one?
  Lear. O, reason not the need! Our basest beggars
     Are in the poorest thing superfluous.
     Allow not nature more than nature needs,
     Man's life is cheap as beast's. Thou art a lady:
     If only to go warm were gorgeous,
     Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st
     Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need-
     You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need!
     You see me here, you gods, a poor old man,
     As full of grief as age; wretched in both.
     If it be you that stirs these daughters' hearts
     Against their father, fool me not so much
     To bear it tamely; touch me with noble anger,
     And let not women's weapons, water drops,
     Stain my man's cheeks! No, you unnatural hags!
     I will have such revenges on you both
     That all the world shall- I will do such things-
     What they are yet, I know not; but they shall be
     The terrors of the earth! You think I'll weep.
     No, I'll not weep.
     I have full cause of weeping, but this heart
     Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws
     Or ere I'll weep. O fool, I shall go mad!
              Exeunt Lear, Gloucester, Kent, and Fool. Storm and
                                                        tempest.
  Corn. Let us withdraw; 'twill be a storm.
  Reg. This house is little; the old man and 's people
     Cannot be well bestow'd.
  Gon. 'Tis his own blame; hath put himself from rest
     And must needs taste his folly.
  Reg. For his particular, I'll receive him gladly,
     But not one follower.
  Gon. So am I purpos'd.
     Where is my Lord of Gloucester?
  Corn. Followed the old man forth.

                          Enter Gloucester.

     He is return'd.
  Glou. The King is in high rage.
  Corn. Whither is he going?
  Glou. He calls to horse, but will I know not whither.
  Corn. 'Tis best to give him way; he leads himself.
  Gon. My lord, entreat him by no means to stay.
  Glou. Alack, the night comes on, and the bleak winds
     Do sorely ruffle. For many miles about
     There's scarce a bush.
  Reg. O, sir, to wilful men
     The injuries that they themselves procure
     Must be their schoolmasters. Shut up your doors.
     He is attended with a desperate train,
     And what they may incense him to, being apt
     To have his ear abus'd, wisdom bids fear.
  Corn. Shut up your doors, my lord: 'tis a wild night.
     My Regan counsels well. Come out o' th' storm.        [Exeunt.]




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT III. Scene I.
A heath.

Storm still. Enter Kent and a Gentleman at several doors.

  Kent. Who's there, besides foul weather?
  Gent. One minded like the weather, most unquietly.
  Kent. I know you. Where's the King?
  Gent. Contending with the fretful elements;
     Bids the wind blow the earth into the sea,
     Or swell the curled waters 'bove the main,
     That things might change or cease; tears his white hair,
     Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage,
     Catch in their fury and make nothing of;
     Strives in his little world of man to outscorn
     The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
     This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,
     The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
     Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he runs,
     And bids what will take all.
  Kent. But who is with him?
  Gent. None but the fool, who labours to outjest
     His heart-struck injuries.
  Kent. Sir, I do know you,
     And dare upon the warrant of my note
     Commend a dear thing to you. There is division
     (Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
     With mutual cunning) 'twixt Albany and Cornwall;
     Who have (as who have not, that their great stars
     Thron'd and set high?) servants, who seem no less,
     Which are to France the spies and speculations
     Intelligent of our state. What hath been seen,
     Either in snuffs and packings of the Dukes,
     Or the hard rein which both of them have borne
     Against the old kind King, or something deeper,
     Whereof, perchance, these are but furnishings-
     But, true it is, from France there comes a power
     Into this scattered kingdom, who already,
     Wise in our negligence, have secret feet
     In some of our best ports and are at point
     To show their open banner. Now to you:
     If on my credit you dare build so far
     To make your speed to Dover, you shall find
     Some that will thank you, making just report
     Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow
     The King hath cause to plain.
     I am a gentleman of blood and breeding,
     And from some knowledge and assurance offer
     This office to you.
  Gent. I will talk further with you.
  Kent. No, do not.
     For confirmation that I am much more
     Than my out-wall, open this purse and take
     What it contains. If you shall see Cordelia
     (As fear not but you shall), show her this ring,
     And she will tell you who your fellow is
     That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!
     I will go seek the King.
  Gent. Give me your hand. Have you no more to say?
  Kent. Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet:
     That, when we have found the King (in which your pain
     That way, I'll this), he that first lights on him
     Holla the other.
                                             Exeunt [severally].




Scene II.
Another part of the heath.

Storm still. Enter Lear and Fool.

  Lear. Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!
     You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
     Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
     You sulph'rous and thought-executing fires,
     Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
     Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
     Strike flat the thick rotundity o' th' world,
     Crack Nature's moulds, all germains spill at once,
     That makes ingrateful man!
  Fool. O nuncle, court holy water in a dry house is better than this
     rain water out o' door. Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters
     blessing! Here's a night pities nether wise men nor fools.
  Lear. Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
     Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire are my daughters.
     I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness.
     I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
     You owe me no subscription. Then let fall
     Your horrible pleasure. Here I stand your slave,
     A poor, infirm, weak, and despis'd old man.
     But yet I call you servile ministers,
     That will with two pernicious daughters join
     Your high-engender'd battles 'gainst a head
     So old and white as this! O! O! 'tis foul!
  Fool. He that has a house to put 's head in has a good head-piece.
          The codpiece that will house
            Before the head has any,
          The head and he shall louse:
            So beggars marry many.
          The man that makes his toe
            What he his heart should make
          Shall of a corn cry woe,
            And turn his sleep to wake.
     For there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths in a
     glass.

                             Enter Kent.

  Lear. No, I will be the pattern of all patience;
     I will say nothing.
  Kent. Who's there?
  Fool. Marry, here's grace and a codpiece; that's a wise man and a
     fool.
  Kent. Alas, sir, are you here? Things that love night
     Love not such nights as these. The wrathful skies
     Gallow the very wanderers of the dark
     And make them keep their caves. Since I was man,
     Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
     Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
