not marking, that
    I am troubled withal.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. To punish you by the heels would amend the attention
    of your ears; and I care not if I do become your physician.
  FALSTAFF. I am as poor as Job, my lord, but not so patient. Your
    lordship may minister the potion of imprisonment to me in respect
    of poverty; but how I should be your patient to follow your
    prescriptions, the wise may make some dram of a scruple, or
    indeed a scruple itself.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. I sent for you, when there were matters against you
    for your life, to come speak with me.
  FALSTAFF. As I was then advis'd by my learned counsel in the laws
    of this land-service, I did not come.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, the truth is, Sir John, you live in great
    infamy.
  FALSTAFF. He that buckles himself in my belt cannot live in less.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Your means are very slender, and your waste is
    great.
  FALSTAFF. I would it were otherwise; I would my means were greater
    and my waist slenderer.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. You have misled the youthful Prince.
  FALSTAFF. The young Prince hath misled me. I am the fellow with the
    great belly, and he my dog.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, I am loath to gall a new-heal'd wound. Your
    day's service at Shrewsbury hath a little gilded over your
    night's exploit on Gadshill. You may thank th' unquiet time for
    your quiet o'erposting that action.
  FALSTAFF. My lord-
  CHIEF JUSTICE. But since all is well, keep it so: wake not a
    sleeping wolf.
  FALSTAFF. To wake a wolf is as bad as smell a fox.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. What! you are as a candle, the better part burnt
    out.
  FALSTAFF. A wassail candle, my lord- all tallow; if I did say of
    wax, my growth would approve the truth.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. There is not a white hair in your face but should
    have his effect of gravity.
  FALSTAFF. His effect of gravy, gravy,
  CHIEF JUSTICE. You follow the young Prince up and down, like his
    ill angel.
  FALSTAFF. Not so, my lord. Your ill angel is light; but  hope he
    that looks upon me will take me without weighing. And yet in some
    respects, I grant, I cannot go- I cannot tell. Virtue is of so
    little regard in these costermongers' times that true valour is
    turn'd berod; pregnancy is made a tapster, and his quick wit
    wasted in giving reckonings; all the other gifts appertinent to
    man, as the malice of this age shapes them, are not worth a
    gooseberry. You that are old consider not the capacities of us
    that are young; you do measure the heat of our livers with the
    bitterness of your galls; and we that are in the vaward of our
    youth, must confess, are wags too.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Do you set down your name in the scroll of youth,
    that are written down old with all the characters of age? Have
    you not a moist eye, a dry hand, a yellow cheek, a white beard, a
    decreasing leg, an increasing belly? Is not your voice broken,
    your wind short, your chin double, your wit single, and every
    part about you blasted with antiquity? And will you yet call
    yourself young? Fie, fie, fie, Sir John!
  FALSTAFF. My lord, I was born about three of the clock in the
    afternoon, with a white head and something a round belly. For my
    voice- I have lost it with hallooing and singing of anthems. To
    approve my youth further, I will not. The truth is, I am only old
    in judgment and understanding; and he that will caper with me for
    a thousand marks, let him lend me the money, and have at him. For
    the box of the ear that the Prince gave you- he gave it like a
    rude prince, and you took it like a sensible lord. I have check'd
    him for it; and the young lion repents- marry, not in ashes and
    sackcloth, but in new silk and old sack.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, God send the Prince a better companion!
  FALSTAFF. God send the companion a better prince! I cannot rid my
    hands of him.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, the King hath sever'd you. I hear you are
    going with Lord John of Lancaster against the Archbishop and the
    Earl of Northumberland.
  FALSTAFF. Yea; I thank your pretty sweet wit for it. But look you
    pray, all you that kiss my Lady Peace at home, that our armies
    join not in a hot day; for, by the Lord, I take but two shirts
    out with me, and I mean not to sweat extraordinarily. If it be a
    hot day, and I brandish anything but a bottle, I would I might
    never spit white again. There is not a dangerous action can peep
    out his head but I am thrust upon it. Well, I cannot last ever;
    but it was alway yet the trick of our English nation, if they
    have a good thing, to make it too common. If ye will needs say I
    am an old man, you should give me rest. I would to God my name
    were not so terrible to the enemy as it is. I were better to be
    eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with
    perpetual motion.
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, be honest, be honest; and God bless your
    expedition!
  FALSTAFF. Will your lordship lend me a thousand pound to furnish me
    forth?
  CHIEF JUSTICE. Not a penny, not a penny; you are too impatient to
    bear crosses. Fare you well. Commend me to my cousin
    Westmoreland.
                                Exeunt CHIEF JUSTICE and SERVANT
  FALSTAFF. If I do, fillip me with a three-man beetle. A man can no
    more separate age and covetousness than 'a can part young limbs
    and lechery; but the gout galls the one, and the pox pinches the
    other; and so both the degrees prevent my curses. Boy!
  PAGE. Sir?
  FALSTAFF. What money is in my purse?
  PAGE. Seven groats and two pence.
  FALSTAFF. I can get no remedy against this consumption of the
    purse; borrowing only lingers and lingers it out, but the disease
    is incurable. Go bear this letter to my Lord of Lancaster; this
    to the Prince; this to the Earl of Westmoreland; and this to old
    Mistress Ursula, whom I have weekly sworn to marry since I
    perceiv'd the first white hair of my chin. About it; you know
    where to find me.  [Exit PAGE]  A pox of this gout! or, a gout of
    this pox! for the one or the other plays the rogue with my great
    toe. 'Tis no matter if I do halt; I have the wars for my colour,
    and my pension shall seem the more reasonable. A good wit will
    make use of anything. I will turn diseases to commodity.
 Exit




SCENE III.
York. The ARCHBISHOP'S palace

Enter the ARCHBISHOP, THOMAS MOWBRAY the EARL MARSHAL, LORD HASTINGS,
and LORD BARDOLPH

  ARCHBISHOP. Thus have you heard our cause and known our means;
    And, my most noble friends, I pray you all
    Speak plainly your opinions of our hopes-
    And first, Lord Marshal, what say you to it?
  MOWBRAY. I well allow the occasion of our amis;
    But gladly would be better satisfied
    How, in our means, we should advance ourselves
    To look with forehead bold and big enough
    Upon the power and puissance of the King.
  HASTINGS. Our present musters grow upon the file
    To five and twenty thousand men of choice;
    And our supplies live largely in the hope
    Of great Northumberland, whose bosom burns
    With an incensed fire of injuries.
  LORD BARDOLPH. The question then, Lord Hastings, standeth thus:
    Whether our present five and twenty thousand
    May hold up head without Northumberland?
  HASTINGS. With him, we may.
  LORD BARDOLPH. Yea, marry, there's the point;
    But if without him we be thought too feeble,
    My judgment is we should not step too far
    Till we had his assistance by the hand;
    For, in a theme so bloody-fac'd as this,
    Conjecture, expectation, and surmise
    Of aids incertain, should not be admitted.
  ARCHBISHOP. 'Tis very true, Lord Bardolph; for indeed
    It was young Hotspur's case at Shrewsbury.
  LORD BARDOLPH. It was, my lord; who lin'd himself with hope,
    Eating the air and promise of supply,
    Flatt'ring himself in project of a power
    Much smaller than the smallest of his thoughts;
    And so, with great imagination
    Proper to madmen, led his powers to death,
    And, winking, leapt into destruction.
  HASTINGS. But, by your leave, it never yet did hurt
    To lay down likelihoods and forms of hope.
  LORD BARDOLPH. Yes, if this present quality of war-
    Indeed the instant action, a cause on foot-
    Lives so in hope, as in an early spring
    We see th' appearing buds; which to prove fruit
    Hope gives not so much warrant, as despair
    That frosts will bite them. ×hen we mean to build,
    We first survey the plot, then draw the model;
    And when we see the figure of the house,
    Then we must rate the cost of the erection;
    Which if we find outweighs ability,
    What do we then but draw anew the model
    In fewer offices, or at least desist
    To build at all? Much more, in this great work-
    Which is almost to pluck a kingdom down
    And set another up- should we survey
    The plot of situation and the model,
    Consent upon a sure foundation,
    Question surveyors, know our own estate
    How able such a work to undergo-
    To weigh against his opposite; or else
    We fortify in paper and in figures,
    Using the names of men instead of men;
    Like one that